2419  BUSINESS PROFESSIONALS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers business professionals not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 241, Business professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  studying, advising on and applying operational
methods relating to various  aspects of business undertakings,
such as marketing, advertising, public  relations, application
of rules concerning patents, or steps to be taken in  setting up
and running a business, and home economics principles.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   conducting research and determining or advising on existing
      level of sales for particular products or services, and
      assessing potential markets and future trends;

(b)   planning, advising on or directing and coordinating
      production of advertising campaigns;

(c)   studying, advising on and conducting public relations
      programmes with a view to improving the public's knowledge
      and understanding of the enterprise or establishment in
      question;

(d)   giving advice concerning patents and assisting in preparing
      applications or examining applications submitted for
      registration, and writing reports setting out reasons for
      or against the granting of a patent;

(e)   studying and advising on financial, legal, organisational,
      marketing and other aspects connected with setting up and
      running a business;

(f)   studying, interpreting and informing about and advising on
      principles of home economics and management with a view to
      promoting welfare of families, as well as the consumption
      of household goods, or the promotion of new products;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Account executive, advertising
  Analyst, market research
  Home economist
  Officer, public relations
  Patent agent

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Company secretary - 1231

2411  ACCOUNTANTS 
     Accountants advise on accounting matters and perform
accountancy services  or audits.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising on, planning and installing budgetary, accounts
      controlling and other accounting policies and systems;

(b)   preparing and certifying financial statements for
      presentation to management, shareholders and statutory or
      other bodies;

(c)   preparing tax returns, advising on taxation problems and
      contesting disputed claims before tax officials;

(d)   preparing or reporting on profit forecasts and budgets;

(e)   conducting financial investigations in such matters as
      suspected fraud, insolvency and bankruptcy;

(f)   auditing accounts and book-keeping records;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Accountant
  Accountant, chartered
  Auditor

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Assistant, accounting - 3434
  Bookkeeper - 3433
  Clerk, accounts -4121

3117  MINING AND METALLURGICAL TECHNICIANS
 
     Mining and metallurgical technicians perform technical tasks
connected  with metallurgical research to develop improved
methods of extracting solid  minerals, oil and gas, as well as
with the design, construction, operation,  maintenance and repair
of mines and mine installations, systems for  transporting and
storing oil and natural gas, and plant for extracting metals 
from their ores and refining metal.

     Tasks include -

(a)   providing technical assistance connected with research and
      the development of processes to determine the properties
      of metal and new alloys, or of improved methods for the
      extraction of solid minerals, oil and natural gas, and for
      transporting and storing oil and natural gas, or testing
      prototypes;

(b)   providing technical assistance in geological and
      topographical surveys, and in the design and layout of oil,
      natural gas and mineral ore extraction and transport
      systems, and processing and refining plant for minerals and
      metals;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for mineral, oil and natural
      gas exploration, extraction and transport projects and
      plant, and for processing and mineral refining plant
      according to the specifications given;

(d)   providing technical supervision of the construction,
      installation, operation, maintenance and repair of mineral
      ore, oil and natural gas exploration, extraction, transport
      and storage installations and mineral processing plant to
      ensure satisfactory performance and compliance with
      specifications and regulations;

(e)   applying technical knowledge of mining, of oil and natural
      gas extraction, transport and storage, and of metallurgical
      principles and practices in order to identity and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, engineering/mining
  Technician, metallurgy/extractive

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Machine-operator, drilling/mine - 8111
  Miner - 7111
  Quarrier - 7111

3474  CLOWNS, MAGICIANS, ACROBATS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS
 
     Clowns, magicians, acrobats and related associate
professionals entertain  audiences in circuses and other places
by performing a variety of acts.   
   
     Tasks include -

(a)   performing amusing antics and telling funny stories;

(b)   performing tricks of illusion and sleight of hand, and
      feats of hypnotism;

(c)   performing difficult and spectacular acrobatics, and
      gymnastic or juggling feats:

(d)   training and performing with animals;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Acrobat	
  Aerialist
  Clown
  Hypnotist
  Magician

2455  FILM, STAGE AND RELATED ACTORS AND DIRECTORS      
     Film, stage and related actors and directors act in, or
direct, motion  pictures, television or radio productions and
stage,shows.

     Tasks include -

(a)   learning lines and cues and playing parts in dramatic
      productions on stage, television, radio or in motion
      pictures;

(b)   telling stories or reading literary works aloud to educate
      or entertain listeners;

(c)   studying scripts to determine artistic interpretation,
      instructing actors on acting methods, and directing all
      aspects of dramatic productions on stage, television, radio
      or in motion pictures, including choice of actors, and
      final decisions concerning costumes, set designs, sound or
      lighting effects;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Actor
  Director, motion picture
  Director, stage
  Story-teller, radio or television

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Clown - 3474
  Impresario - 1229
  Producer, theatre - 1229
  Stage manager, 1229

2121  MATHEMATICIANS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Mathematicians and related professionals conduct research
and improve or  develop mathematical and actuarial concepts,
theories and operational methods  and techniques and advise on
or engage in their practical application in such  fields as
engineering, business or medicine as well as in other areas of 
natural, social or life sciences.

     Tasks include:

(a)   studying, improving and developing mathematical and
      actuarial theories and techniques:.

(b)   advising on or applying mathematical principles, models and
      techniques to a wide range of tasks in the fields of
      engineering, agronomy and medicine, as well as in other
      areas of natural, social or life sciences;

(c)   conducting logical analyses of management problems,
      especially in terms of input-output effectiveness, and
      formulating mathematical models of each problem usually for
      programming and solution by computer;

(d)   designing and putting into operation pension schemes and
      life, health, social and other types of insurance systems-.

(e)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(f)   performing related tasks

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Actuary
  Analyst, operations research
  Mathematician, applied mathematics
  Mathematician, pure mathematics

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Assistant. actuarial: 3434
  Assistant, mathematical: 3434
  Clerk, actuarial: 4122
  Statistician, mathematical: 2122

3417  APPRAISERS, VALUERS AND AUCTIONEERS
 
     Appraisers, valuers and auctioneers value property and
various goods and  assess losses covered by insurance policies,
or sell objects, properties and  goods by auction.     Tasks include -

(a)   determining the quality of value of raw materials, real
      estate, industria equipment, personal and household
      effects, works of art, gems and other objects offered for
      sale to be insured;

(b)   assessing the extent of damage or loss and liabilities of
      insurance companies and underwriters for losses covered by
      insurance policies;

(c)   selling by auction various kinds of property, cars,
      commodities, livestock, art, jewellery and other objects;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Appraiser
  Assessor, claims
  Assessor, insurance
  Auctioneer
  Inspector, claims
  Valuer

3431  ADMINISTRATIVE SECRETARIES AND RELATED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS
 
     Administrative secretaries and related associate
professionals implement  and support the communication,
documentation and internal managerial  co-ordination activities
of an organisational unit to assist the head of unit  and other
members of staff, and make verbatim reports of proceedings.     Tasks include -

(a)   drafting administrative correspondence and minutes;

(b)   obtaining, proposing and monitoring deadlines and follow-up
      dates;

(c)   screening requests for meetings, scheduling and organising
      meetings, scheduling and organising meetings and travel
      arrangements for the head of unit and other members of
      staff:

(d)   assisting in the preparation of budgets, monitoring of
      expenditures, drafting of contracts and purchasing or
      acquisition orders;

(e)   assisting the head of unit and other staff with inquiries
      of an administrative or organisational nature;

(f)   assisting the head of unit in organising and hosting
      hospitality functions for outside visitors or members of
      staff;

(g)   making verbatim reports of proceedings in legislative
      assemblies, courts of law or other places in shorthand or
      by other means;

(h)   writing and answering business or technical letters and
      other similar correspondence;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.
  
Examples of the occupations classified here:   Administrative secretary
  Assistant, correspondence
  Verbatim reporter
  
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Secretary - 4115

1120  SENIOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS 

      Senior government officials advise governments on policy
matters, oversee the interpretation and implementation of
government policies and legislation  by government departments
and agencies, represent their country abroad and act  on its
behalf, or carry out similar tasks in intergovernmental
organisations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   advising national, state, regional or local governments on
      policy matters;

(b)   advising on the preparation of government budgets, laws and
      regulations, including amendments;

(c)   overseeing the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies and legislation by government
      departments and agencies;

(d)   representing their country abroad;
         
(e)   performing similar tasks in intergovernmental
      organisations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Administrator, government
Administrator, intergovernmental organisation
Ambassador
Consul-general
Secretary, government/non legislative

3415  TECHNICAL AND COMMERCIAL SALES REPRESENTATIVES 
     Technical and commercial sales representatives sell various
goods on a  wholesale basis including installations, equipment
and technical products and  related services, and provide
specialised information as required.     Tasks include -

(a)   soliciting orders and selling goods to retail, industrial,
      wholesale and other establishments;

(b)   selling technical equipment, supplies and related services
      to business establishments or individuals;

(c)   providing prospective customers with general and
      specialised information about the characteristics and
      functions of the equipment, and 
     demonstrating its use;

(d)   reporting customers' reactions and requirements to
      manufacturers;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Adviser, after-sales service
  Canvasser
  Commercial traveller
  Salesperson, technical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Salesperson, retail establishment - 5220

3213  FARMING AND FORESTRY ADVISERS 
     Farming and forestry advisers provide technical assistance
and advice on  farming and forestry methods and problems.

     Tasks include -

(a)   keeping abreast of relevant farming or forestry methods and
      techniques;

(b)   advising on ways of raising quality of output, increasing
      yield and measures to increase efficiency of operations and
      to conserve natural assets and the environment;

(c)   advising on measures to deal with problems such as soil
      erosion or pest infestations;

(d)   collecting data and estimating quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects;

(e)   organising demonstrations, giving lectures and distributing
      material to promote adoption of improved practices and
      techniques;

(f)   applying knowledge of scientific principles and practices
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work

(g)   performing related tasks.

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 Adviser, farming
 Adviser, forestry
 Farm demonstrator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Technician, agronomy - 3212
 Technician, forestry - 3212

2412  PERSONNEL AND CAREERS PROFESSIONALS 
     Personnel and careers professionals provide professional
business  services related to personnel policies such as employee
recruitment or  development, occupational analyses and vocational
guidance.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising on and performing personnel functions relating to
      employee recruitment, placement, training, promotion,
      compensation, and employee-management relations or other
      areas of personnel policy;

(b)   studying and analysing jobs performed in an establishment
      by various means, including interviews with workers,
      supervisors and management, and writing detailed post, job
      and occupation descriptions from data obtained;

(c)   preparing occupational information booklets or working on
      occupational classification systems;

(d)   advising and working on the foregoing and other aspects of
      job and occupation analyses in such fields as personnel
      administration, manpower research and planning, training,
      or occupational information and vocational guidance;

(e)   studying and advising individuals on employment
      opportunities, career choices and further education or
      training that may be desirable;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Adviser, careers
  Analyst, job
  Analyst, occupational
  Counsellor, vocational guidance

2351  EDUCATION METHODS SPECIALISTS 
     Education methods specialists conduct research and develop
or advise on  teaching methods and aids.

     Tasks include -

(a)   researching into current developments curricula, teaching
      methods and other educational practices, and advising on
      necessary changes and possible improvements;

(b)   advising on contents of courses and methods of examination;

(c)   researching into audio-visual and other teaching aids and
      advising on, planning and organising their introduction in
      educational establishments;

(d)   preparing papers and reports;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Adviser, education methods
  Curricula developer
  Specialist, teaching aids

3213  FARMING AND FORESTRY ADVISERS 
     Farming and forestry advisers provide technical assistance
and advice on  farming and forestry methods and problems.

     Tasks include -

(a)   keeping abreast of relevant farming or forestry methods and
      techniques;

(b)   advising on ways of raising quality of output, increasing
      yield and measures to increase efficiency of operations and
      to conserve natural assets and the environment;

(c)   advising on measures to deal with problems such as soil
      erosion or pest infestations;

(d)   collecting data and estimating quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects;

(e)   organising demonstrations, giving lectures and distributing
      material to promote adoption of improved practices and
      techniques;

(f)   applying knowledge of scientific principles and practices
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work

(g)   performing related tasks.

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 Adviser, farming
 Adviser, forestry
 Farm demonstrator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Technician, agronomy - 3212
 Technician, forestry - 3212

2429  LEGAL PROFESSIONALS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers legal professionals not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 242, Legal professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who perform
legal functions  other than pleading or prosecuting cases or
presiding over judicial  proceedings.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   giving advice on legal aspects of various personal,
      business and administrative problems;

(b)   drawing up legal documents and contracts;

(c)   arranging property transfers;

(d)   determining, by inquest, the causes of any death not
      obviously due to natural causes;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Coroner
  Jurist, except lawyer or judge
  Notary

2351  EDUCATION METHODS SPECIALISTS 
     Education methods specialists conduct research and develop
or advise on  teaching methods and aids.

     Tasks include -

(a)   researching into current developments curricula, teaching
      methods and other educational practices, and advising on
      necessary changes and possible improvements;

(b)   advising on contents of courses and methods of examination;

(c)   researching into audio-visual and other teaching aids and
      advising on, planning and organising their introduction in
      educational establishments;

(d)   preparing papers and reports;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Adviser, education methods
  Curricula developer
  Specialist, teaching aids

2421  LAWYERS 
   
     Lawyers give clients legal advice on a wide variety Of
subjects and plead  cases or conduct prosecutions in courts of
justice, or instruct barristers or  advocates to plead in higher
courts of justice.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research on legal theories and principles and
      their relationship to specific laws or court judgements;

(b)   drafting legislation and preparing government regulations
      based on existing laws;

(c)   giving clients - including the Government - legal advice
on
      a wide variety of subjects and undertaking legal business
      on clients' behalf;

(d)   assisting clients to negotiate settlements in matters which
      involve legal disputes;

(e)   examining the circumstances of disputes or reported crimes
      to ascertain facts and their legal implications;

(f)   preparing pleadings or cases for plaintiff or defendant and
      conducting them in court;

(g)   representing clients in the lower court or instructing
      barristers or advocates to plead in higher courts of
      justice;

(h)   accepting briefs and pleading in the higher court;

(i)   acting as prosecutor on behalf of the Government in
      criminal cases;

(j)   drawing up legal documents;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Advocate
  Attorney
  Barrister
  Lawyer
  Prosecutor
  Solicitor

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Clerk, conveyancing - 3432
  Clerk, law - 3432

3474  CLOWNS, MAGICIANS, ACROBATS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS
 
     Clowns, magicians, acrobats and related associate
professionals entertain  audiences in circuses and other places
by performing a variety of acts.   
   
     Tasks include -

(a)   performing amusing antics and telling funny stories;

(b)   performing tricks of illusion and sleight of hand, and
      feats of hypnotism;

(c)   performing difficult and spectacular acrobatics, and
      gymnastic or juggling feats:

(d)   training and performing with animals;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Acrobat	
  Aerialist
  Clown
  Hypnotist
  Magician

2111  PHYSICISTS AND ASTRONOMERS 
     Physicists and astronomers conduct research, improve or
develop concepts,  theories and operational methods, or apply
scientific knowledge relating to  physics and astronomy in
industrial, medical, military or other fields.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research, and improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods related to physics and
      astronomy-.

(b)   conducting experiments, tests and analyses in fields such
      as mechanics, thermodynamics, optics, sonics, electricity,
      magnetism, electronics and nuclear physics, or astronomy;

(c)   conducting experiments, tests and analyses of the structure
      and properties of matter in solid state and its behaviour
      under temperature, pressure, stress and other conditions;

(d)   evaluating results of investigations and experiments and
      expressing conclusions, mainly using mathematical
      techniques and models;

(e)   developing or improving industrial, medical, military and
      other practical applications of the principles and
      techniques of physics or astronomy'.

(f)   observing, analysing and interpreting celestial phenomena
      and developing methods and techniques to be used in fields
      such as navigation or space exploration;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Astronomer

  Physicist

7232  AIRCRAFT ENGINE MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Aircraft engine mechanics and fitters fit, service, repair
and overhaul  aircraft engines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, examining, testing and servicing aircraft engines;

(b)  replacing engine components or complete engines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitters engine/aircraft
  Mechanic, engine/aircraft
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, textile machinery - 8281

3422  CLEARING AND FORWARDING AGENTS
 
     Clearing and forwarding agents carry out customs clearing
procedures and  ensure that insurance, export/import licences and
other formalities are in  order.     Tasks include -

(a)   carrying out customs clearing procedures for exports or
      imports;

(b)   ensuring that insurance is in order;

(c)   ensuring that export/import licences and other formalities
      are in order;

(d)   signing and issuing bills of lading;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:  Agent, clearing
  Agent, forwarding
  Agent, shipping

3423  EMPLOYMENT AGENTS AND LABOUR CONTRACTORS
 
     Employment agents and labour contractors match jobseekers
with vacancies,  find workers for employers and contract labour
for particular projects at the  request of enterprises and other,
including government, institutions, or find  places for
jobseekers for a commission.     Tasks include -

(a)   matching jobseekers with vacancies known to government job
      placement offices, or advising on training schemes;

(b)   finding workers for vacant posts against a commission from
      the employer or worker;

(c)   discussing with enterprises/organisations the needed skills
      and other characteristics of the workers to be employed or
      contracted:

(d)   finding workers with appropriate skills, etc., and
      undertaking the necessary formalities according to national
      or international regulations and requirements;

(e)   ensuring that the employment contracts meet legal
      requirements and signing them;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Agent, employment
  Contractor, labour
  Officer, job placement

3413  ESTATE AGENTS 
     Estate agents arrange the sale, purchase, rental and lease
of real  property, usually on behalf of clients and on a
commission basis.     Tasks include -

(a)   obtaining information about properties to be sold or
      leased, the circumstances of their owner and the needs of
      prospective buyers or tenants;

(b)   showing properties to be sold or leased to prospective
      buyers or tenants and explaining terms of sale or
      conditions of rent or lease;

(c)   arranging signing of lease agreements and transfer of
      property rights;

(d)   collecting rent and bond monies on behalf of owner and
      inspecting properties before, during and after tenancies;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Agent, estate
  Realtor
  Salesperson, property

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Clerk, mortgage - 4122

3422  CLEARING AND FORWARDING AGENTS
 
     Clearing and forwarding agents carry out customs clearing
procedures and  ensure that insurance, export/import licences and
other formalities are in  order.     Tasks include -

(a)   carrying out customs clearing procedures for exports or
      imports;

(b)   ensuring that insurance is in order;

(c)   ensuring that export/import licences and other formalities
      are in order;

(d)   signing and issuing bills of lading;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:  Agent, clearing
  Agent, forwarding
  Agent, shipping

3412  INSURANCE REPRESENTATIVES 
     Insurance representatives advise on and sell life, accident,
automobile,  liability, endowment, fire, marine and other types
of insurance to new and  established clients.     Tasks include -

(a)   obtaining information about customers' circumstances
      necessary to determine appropriate type of insurance and
      conditions;

(b)   negotiating with customers to determine type and degree of
      risk for which insurance is derived, extent of coverage and
      terms of payment-

(c)   negotiating and placing reinsurance contracts'.

(d)   advising on, negotiating terms for and placing insurance
      contracts for large or special types of projects,
      installations or risks

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Agent, insurance
   Insurance broker
   Underwriter, insurance

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Assessor, insurance - 3417
       Clerk, insurance - 3432

3413  ESTATE AGENTS 
     Estate agents arrange the sale, purchase, rental and lease
of real  property, usually on behalf of clients and on a
commission basis.     Tasks include -

(a)   obtaining information about properties to be sold or
      leased, the circumstances of their owner and the needs of
      prospective buyers or tenants;

(b)   showing properties to be sold or leased to prospective
      buyers or tenants and explaining terms of sale or
      conditions of rent or lease;

(c)   arranging signing of lease agreements and transfer of
      property rights;

(d)   collecting rent and bond monies on behalf of owner and
      inspecting properties before, during and after tenancies;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Agent, estate
  Realtor
  Salesperson, property

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Clerk, mortgage - 4122

3450  POLICE INSPECTORS AND DETECTIVES
 
     Police inspectors and detectives investigate facts and
circumstances  relating to crimes committed and obtain
information not readily available or  apparent concerning
establishments or the circumstances and behaviour of  persons,
mostly in order to prevent crimes.
     
     Tasks include -

(a)   establishing contacts and sources of information about
      crimes planned or committed, in order to prevent crimes or
      identify culprits;

(b)   investigating events and circumstances suspected of being
      criminal in nature to obtain evidence and identify the
      perpetrators;

(c)   establishing contacts and sources of information not
      readily available or apparent concerning establishments or
      the circumstances and behaviour of persons, usually with
      the aim of preventing a crime:

(d)   investigating possible cases of theft of goods, money or
      information from business establishments and of other
      possible cases of unlawful behaviour by customers or
      employees;

(e)   investigating establishments or other circumstances and
      behaviour of persons on behalf of legal authorities or
      clients;

(f)   making arrests or assisting in making arrests, if
      authorised;

(g)   testifying in court of law or reporting to superiors or
      clients about circumstances and results of investigations;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Agent, inquiry/police
  Detective
  Inspector, police

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Inspector-general, police - 1120
  Commissioner, police - 1120
  Police officer - 5162

3412  INSURANCE REPRESENTATIVES 
     Insurance representatives advise on and sell life, accident,
automobile,  liability, endowment, fire, marine and other types
of insurance to new and  established clients.     Tasks include -

(a)   obtaining information about customers' circumstances
      necessary to determine appropriate type of insurance and
      conditions;

(b)   negotiating with customers to determine type and degree of
      risk for which insurance is derived, extent of coverage and
      terms of payment-

(c)   negotiating and placing reinsurance contracts'.

(d)   advising on, negotiating terms for and placing insurance
      contracts for large or special types of projects,
      installations or risks

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Agent, insurance
   Insurance broker
   Underwriter, insurance

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Assessor, insurance - 3417
       Clerk, insurance - 3432

3429  BUSINESS SERVICES AGENTS AND TRADE BROKERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers business services agents and trade
brokers not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 342.  Business
services agents and trade  brokers.     For instance, here should be classified those who establish
business  contacts, sell business services such as advertising
space in the media,  transport services, and other facilities,
credit and other business  information, arrange contracts for
performances of athletes, entertainers and  artists, as well as
for the publication of books, the production of plays, or  the
recording, performing and sale of music.     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   obtaining information about services to be sold and needs
      of prospective buyers'.

(b)   negotiating contracts on behalf of seller or buyer and
      explaining terms of sale and payment to client;

(c)   signing agreements on behalf of seller or buyer and
      ensuring that contract is honoured ;

(d)   making sure that the business service purchased is made
      available to the buyer in the agreed format the agreed
      time;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Agent, literary
  Agent, musical performance
  Agent, sports
  Agent, theatrical
  Salesperson, business services/advertising

3416  BUYERS 
     Buyers buy goods and services on behalf of industrial,
commercial or  other enterprises and organisations.     Tasks include -

(a)   negotiating and contracting for the purchase of equipment,
      raw materials, products and supplies for industrial plant,
      utilities, government units or other establishments and the
      purchasing of merchandise for resale;

(b)   obtaining information about requirements and stock, and
      determining quantity and quality to be purchased, costs,
      delivery dates and other contract conditions;

(c)   performing related tasks;

(d)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Buyer
  Buyer, merchandise/retail trade
  Buyer, merchandise/wholesale trade

3413  ESTATE AGENTS 
     Estate agents arrange the sale, purchase, rental and lease
of real  property, usually on behalf of clients and on a
commission basis.     Tasks include -

(a)   obtaining information about properties to be sold or
      leased, the circumstances of their owner and the needs of
      prospective buyers or tenants;

(b)   showing properties to be sold or leased to prospective
      buyers or tenants and explaining terms of sale or
      conditions of rent or lease;

(c)   arranging signing of lease agreements and transfer of
      property rights;

(d)   collecting rent and bond monies on behalf of owner and
      inspecting properties before, during and after tenancies;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Agent, estate
  Realtor
  Salesperson, property

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Clerk, mortgage - 4122

3416  BUYERS 
     Buyers buy goods and services on behalf of industrial,
commercial or  other enterprises and organisations.     Tasks include -

(a)   negotiating and contracting for the purchase of equipment,
      raw materials, products and supplies for industrial plant,
      utilities, government units or other establishments and the
      purchasing of merchandise for resale;

(b)   obtaining information about requirements and stock, and
      determining quantity and quality to be purchased, costs,
      delivery dates and other contract conditions;

(c)   performing related tasks;

(d)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Buyer
  Buyer, merchandise/retail trade
  Buyer, merchandise/wholesale trade

3415  TECHNICAL AND COMMERCIAL SALES REPRESENTATIVES 
     Technical and commercial sales representatives sell various
goods on a  wholesale basis including installations, equipment
and technical products and  related services, and provide
specialised information as required.     Tasks include -

(a)   soliciting orders and selling goods to retail, industrial,
      wholesale and other establishments;

(b)   selling technical equipment, supplies and related services
      to business establishments or individuals;

(c)   providing prospective customers with general and
      specialised information about the characteristics and
      functions of the equipment, and 
     demonstrating its use;

(d)   reporting customers' reactions and requirements to
      manufacturers;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Adviser, after-sales service
  Canvasser
  Commercial traveller
  Salesperson, technical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Salesperson, retail establishment - 5220

3422  CLEARING AND FORWARDING AGENTS
 
     Clearing and forwarding agents carry out customs clearing
procedures and  ensure that insurance, export/import licences and
other formalities are in  order.     Tasks include -

(a)   carrying out customs clearing procedures for exports or
      imports;

(b)   ensuring that insurance is in order;

(c)   ensuring that export/import licences and other formalities
      are in order;

(d)   signing and issuing bills of lading;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:  Agent, clearing
  Agent, forwarding
  Agent, shipping

3429  BUSINESS SERVICES AGENTS AND TRADE BROKERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers business services agents and trade
brokers not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 342.  Business
services agents and trade  brokers.     For instance, here should be classified those who establish
business  contacts, sell business services such as advertising
space in the media,  transport services, and other facilities,
credit and other business  information, arrange contracts for
performances of athletes, entertainers and  artists, as well as
for the publication of books, the production of plays, or  the
recording, performing and sale of music.     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   obtaining information about services to be sold and needs
      of prospective buyers'.

(b)   negotiating contracts on behalf of seller or buyer and
      explaining terms of sale and payment to client;

(c)   signing agreements on behalf of seller or buyer and
      ensuring that contract is honoured ;

(d)   making sure that the business service purchased is made
      available to the buyer in the agreed format the agreed
      time;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Agent, literary
  Agent, musical performance
  Agent, sports
  Agent, theatrical
  Salesperson, business services/advertising

2213  AGRONOMISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Agronomists and related professionals conduct research and
improve or  develop concepts, theories and operational methods,
and apply scientific  knowledge relating to crop and animal
husbandry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   researching into field crops and grasses and developing new
      or improved cultivation methods;

(b)   researching into horticultural crops and developing new or
      improved cultivation methods;

(c)   researching into animal husbandry and developing new or
      improved breeding methods;

(d)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for tree propagation and culture, or planning and directing
      afforestation and exploitation of forest stands;

(e)   researching into characteristics, use capability and
      productivity of soils and applying findings to development
      of improved agricultural, horticultural and forestry
      practices;

(f)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for wildlife conservation;

(g)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for economic exploitation of grazing lands;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Agronomist
  Animal scientist
  Forestry scientist
  Horticulturist
  Soil scientist

5132  INSTITUTION-BASED PERSONAL CARE WORKERS
 
     Institution-based personal care workers perform simple tasks
to assist  medical, nursing, midwifery and dental professionals
or associate 
professionals in their duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing patients for examination or treatment;

(b)  changing bed-linen and helping patients with their toilet;

(c)  providing hot-water bottles and other comforts for patients;

(d)  serving and collecting food trays and feeding patients
     needing help;

(e)  sterilising surgical and other instruments and equipment;

(f)  assisting dentists by adjusting lights and passing tools and
     materials as requested;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Aid, dental
  Aid, nursing/clinic
  Aid, nursing/hospital
  Ambulance man
  Ambulance woman
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Aid, nursing/home - 5133
  Nurse, associate professional - 3231
  Nurse, professional - 2230

5133  HOME-BASED PERSONAL CARE WORKERS
 
     Home-based personal care workers attend to various personal
needs and in  general provide personal care for persons in need
of such care at their own  homes because of physical or mental
illness or disability or because of  impairment due to old age.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assisting persons in getting into and out of bed and making
     the appropriate change in dress;

(b)  changing bed-linen and helping persons with their bath and
     toilet;

(c)  serving food - prepared by them or others - and feeding
     persons needing help;

(d)  giving or ensuring that persons take the necessary
     medicaments;

(e)  watching for any sign of deterioration in the person's
     health and informing the relevant medical doctor or social
     services;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Aid, nursing/home
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Aid, nursing/clinic - 5132
  Nurse, associate professional - 3231
  Nurse, professional - 2230
  Social worker, associate professional 3460
  Social worker, professional - 2446

5132  INSTITUTION-BASED PERSONAL CARE WORKERS
 
     Institution-based personal care workers perform simple tasks
to assist  medical, nursing, midwifery and dental professionals
or associate 
professionals in their duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing patients for examination or treatment;

(b)  changing bed-linen and helping patients with their toilet;

(c)  providing hot-water bottles and other comforts for patients;

(d)  serving and collecting food trays and feeding patients
     needing help;

(e)  sterilising surgical and other instruments and equipment;

(f)  assisting dentists by adjusting lights and passing tools and
     materials as requested;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Aid, dental
  Aid, nursing/clinic
  Aid, nursing/hospital
  Ambulance man
  Ambulance woman
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Aid, nursing/home - 5133
  Nurse, associate professional - 3231
  Nurse, professional - 2230

5139  PERSONAL CARE AND RELATED WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers personal care and related workers not
classified  elsewhere in Minor group 513, Personal care and
related workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in helping  veterinary or pharmaceutical professionals
or associate professionals in  performing their tasks.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  bathing and feeding animals;

(b)  leading or carrying animals to treatment room and holding
     them during treatment;

(c)  cleaning and sterilising veterinary surgical instruments;

(d)  labelling drugs, chemicals and other pharmaceutical
     preparations and replenishing stock on shelves;

(e)  sterilising bottles, beakers and other equipment;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Aid, pharmacy
  Aid, veterinary

3460  SOCIAL WORK ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
      Social work associate professionals provide guidance to
clients in social and related matters to enable them to find and
use resources to overcome difficulties and achieve particular
goals.      Tasks include:

(a)   helping individuals and families with personal and social
      problems;

(b)   collecting information relevant to clients' needs and
      advising them on their rights and obligations;

(c)   analysing the client's situation and presenting alternative
      approaches to resolving problems;

(d)   compiling case records or reports for court and other legal
      proceedings;

(e)   planning, evaluating, improving and developing welfare
      services;

(f)   working to prevent development of delinquency or to achieve
      rehabilitation of delinquents by organising and supervising
      social, recreational and educational activities in youth
      clubs, community centres and similar organisations, or by
      other means;

(g)   helping physically or mentally handicapped persons to
      obtain adequate treatment and improve their ability to
      function in society;

(h)   planning, organising or providing home-help services;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Social worker, associate professional
  Social worker, associate professional/enterprise
  Welfare worker, associate professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Social worker, professional - 2446
  Social worker, professional/enterprise - 2446
  Welfare worker, professional -2446

2446  SOCIAL WORK PROFESSIONALS 
     Social work professionals provide guidance to clients in
social and  related matters to enable them to find and use
resources to overcome  difficulties and achieve particular goals.

     Tasks include

(a)   helping individuals and families with personal and social
      problems;

(b)   collecting information relevant to clients' needs and
      advising them on their rights and obligations;

(c)   analysing the client's situation and presenting alternative
      approaches to resolving problems;

(d)   compiling case records or reports for courts and other
      legal proceedings;

(e)   planning, evaluating, improving and developing welfare
      services;

(f)   working to prevent development of delinquency or to achieve
      rehabilitation of delinquents by organising and supervising
      social, recreational and educational activities in youth
      clubs, community centres and similar organisations, or by
      other means;

(g)   helping physically or mentally handicapped persons to
      obtain adequate treatment and improve their ability to
      function in society;

(h)   planning, organising or providing home-help services;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Social worker, professional
  Social worker, professional/enterprise
  Welfare worker, professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Social worker, associate professional - 3460
  Social worker, associate professional/enterprise - 3460
  Welfare worker, associate professional - 3460

1120  SENIOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS 

      Senior government officials advise governments on policy
matters, oversee the interpretation and implementation of
government policies and legislation  by government departments
and agencies, represent their country abroad and act  on its
behalf, or carry out similar tasks in intergovernmental
organisations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   advising national, state, regional or local governments on
      policy matters;

(b)   advising on the preparation of government budgets, laws and
      regulations, including amendments;

(c)   overseeing the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies and legislation by government
      departments and agencies;

(d)   representing their country abroad;
         
(e)   performing similar tasks in intergovernmental
      organisations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Administrator, government
Administrator, intergovernmental organisation
Ambassador
Consul-general
Secretary, government/non legislative

5132  INSTITUTION-BASED PERSONAL CARE WORKERS
 
     Institution-based personal care workers perform simple tasks
to assist  medical, nursing, midwifery and dental professionals
or associate 
professionals in their duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing patients for examination or treatment;

(b)  changing bed-linen and helping patients with their toilet;

(c)  providing hot-water bottles and other comforts for patients;

(d)  serving and collecting food trays and feeding patients
     needing help;

(e)  sterilising surgical and other instruments and equipment;

(f)  assisting dentists by adjusting lights and passing tools and
     materials as requested;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Aid, dental
  Aid, nursing/clinic
  Aid, nursing/hospital
  Ambulance man
  Ambulance woman
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Aid, nursing/home - 5133
  Nurse, associate professional - 3231
  Nurse, professional - 2230

2221  MEDICAL DOCTORS 
     Medical doctors conduct research, improve or develop
concepts, theories  and operational methods, and apply preventive
or curative measures.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research into human disorders and illnesses and
      preventive or curative methods;

(b)   conducting medical examinations and making diagnoses;

(c)   prescribing and giving treatment for diagnosed illnesses,
      disorders or injuries;

(d)   giving specialised medical or surgical treatment for
      particular types of illnesses, disorders or injuries;

(e)   giving advice on and applying preventive medicine methods
      and treatments;

(f)   participating in the development and implementation of
      public health laws and regulations for safeguarding and
      promoting the health of a community;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Doctor, medical
  Ophthalmologist
  Physician
  Psychiatrist
  Surgeon

2131  COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGNERS AND ANALYSTS 
     Computer systems designers and analysts conduct research,
improve or  develop computing concepts and operational methods,
and  advise on or engage  in their practical application.

     Tasks include:

(a)   researching into the principles and operational methods of
      computers and computer-based systems for information
      communication and processing, planning, design, process
      control and production; development and maintenance of
      computer software, as well as data structures and
      databases, algorithms, artificial intelligence and
      robotics;

(b)   maintaining data dictionary and management systems of
      databases to ensure validity and safety of data;

(c)   contributing to and keeping up with technical developments
      of computers, peripherals, computing methods and software,
      their potential and limitations;


(d)   analysing computer users' requirements, by consultation,
to
      determine hardware and software configurations and
      development needs and preparing cost-benefit analyses-

(e)   writing programming specifications and preparing technical
      reports and instruction manuals specifying methods of
      operation and maintenance of the computer hardware and
      software configurations:.

(f)   designing, writing, maintaining and updating software which
      controls the overall functioning of computers and which
      links hardware and computer applications software

(g)   designing and implementing communication networks between
      different computer installations

(h)   developing improved methods and instruments, including
      computer languages, for writing, documenting and
      maintaining computer software,

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Analyst, communications/computers
  Analyst, database/computers
  Analyst, systems/computers
  Database administrator
  Designer, systems/computers
  Engineer, computer systems

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, computer applications 2139
  Technician, computer: 3121

2149  ARCHITECTS, ENGINEERS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS NOT
ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers architects, engineers and related
professionals  not classified elsewhere in Minor group 214,
Architects, engineers and related  professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  conducting research, advising on or developing
procedures concerning  efficiency of production and work
organisation, as well as those who perform  quantity surveying
and those who study and advise on technological aspects of 
particular materials, products and manufacturing processes.

     In such cases tasks would include

(a)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising  on planning and production methods;

(b)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising on methods to promote the efficient, safe and
      economic utilisation of personnel, material and equipment;

(c)   making recommendations regarding methods of work and
      sequence of operations and supervising their
      implementation;

(d)   making recommendations and supervising time and motion
      aspects of work organisation;

(e)   advising on most efficient layout of plant or
      establishment;

(f)   identifying potential hazards and introducing safety
      procedures and devices;

(g)   preparing and monitoring cost estimates and bills of
      quantities for architectural and construction projects;

(h)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular manufacturing processes, such as those related
      to glass, ceramics, textiles, leather products, wood, and
      printing;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, industrial efficiency
  Engineer, production
  Engineer, time and motion study
  Surveyor, quantity
  Technologist, textiles

2131  COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGNERS AND ANALYSTS 
     Computer systems designers and analysts conduct research,
improve or  develop computing concepts and operational methods,
and  advise on or engage  in their practical application.

     Tasks include:

(a)   researching into the principles and operational methods of
      computers and computer-based systems for information
      communication and processing, planning, design, process
      control and production; development and maintenance of
      computer software, as well as data structures and
      databases, algorithms, artificial intelligence and
      robotics;

(b)   maintaining data dictionary and management systems of
      databases to ensure validity and safety of data;

(c)   contributing to and keeping up with technical developments
      of computers, peripherals, computing methods and software,
      their potential and limitations;


(d)   analysing computer users' requirements, by consultation,
to
      determine hardware and software configurations and
      development needs and preparing cost-benefit analyses-

(e)   writing programming specifications and preparing technical
      reports and instruction manuals specifying methods of
      operation and maintenance of the computer hardware and
      software configurations:.

(f)   designing, writing, maintaining and updating software which
      controls the overall functioning of computers and which
      links hardware and computer applications software

(g)   designing and implementing communication networks between
      different computer installations

(h)   developing improved methods and instruments, including
      computer languages, for writing, documenting and
      maintaining computer software,

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Analyst, communications/computers
  Analyst, database/computers
  Analyst, systems/computers
  Database administrator
  Designer, systems/computers
  Engineer, computer systems

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, computer applications 2139
  Technician, computer: 3121

2412  PERSONNEL AND CAREERS PROFESSIONALS 
     Personnel and careers professionals provide professional
business  services related to personnel policies such as employee
recruitment or  development, occupational analyses and vocational
guidance.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising on and performing personnel functions relating to
      employee recruitment, placement, training, promotion,
      compensation, and employee-management relations or other
      areas of personnel policy;

(b)   studying and analysing jobs performed in an establishment
      by various means, including interviews with workers,
      supervisors and management, and writing detailed post, job
      and occupation descriptions from data obtained;

(c)   preparing occupational information booklets or working on
      occupational classification systems;

(d)   advising and working on the foregoing and other aspects of
      job and occupation analyses in such fields as personnel
      administration, manpower research and planning, training,
      or occupational information and vocational guidance;

(e)   studying and advising individuals on employment
      opportunities, career choices and further education or
      training that may be desirable;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Adviser, careers
  Analyst, job
  Analyst, occupational
  Counsellor, vocational guidance

2419  BUSINESS PROFESSIONALS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers business professionals not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 241, Business professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  studying, advising on and applying operational
methods relating to various  aspects of business undertakings,
such as marketing, advertising, public  relations, application
of rules concerning patents, or steps to be taken in  setting up
and running a business, and home economics principles.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   conducting research and determining or advising on existing
      level of sales for particular products or services, and
      assessing potential markets and future trends;

(b)   planning, advising on or directing and coordinating
      production of advertising campaigns;

(c)   studying, advising on and conducting public relations
      programmes with a view to improving the public's knowledge
      and understanding of the enterprise or establishment in
      question;

(d)   giving advice concerning patents and assisting in preparing
      applications or examining applications submitted for
      registration, and writing reports setting out reasons for
      or against the granting of a patent;

(e)   studying and advising on financial, legal, organisational,
      marketing and other aspects connected with setting up and
      running a business;

(f)   studying, interpreting and informing about and advising on
      principles of home economics and management with a view to
      promoting welfare of families, as well as the consumption
      of household goods, or the promotion of new products;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Account executive, advertising
  Analyst, market research
  Home economist
  Officer, public relations
  Patent agent

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Company secretary - 1231

2412  PERSONNEL AND CAREERS PROFESSIONALS 
     Personnel and careers professionals provide professional
business  services related to personnel policies such as employee
recruitment or  development, occupational analyses and vocational
guidance.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising on and performing personnel functions relating to
      employee recruitment, placement, training, promotion,
      compensation, and employee-management relations or other
      areas of personnel policy;

(b)   studying and analysing jobs performed in an establishment
      by various means, including interviews with workers,
      supervisors and management, and writing detailed post, job
      and occupation descriptions from data obtained;

(c)   preparing occupational information booklets or working on
      occupational classification systems;

(d)   advising and working on the foregoing and other aspects of
      job and occupation analyses in such fields as personnel
      administration, manpower research and planning, training,
      or occupational information and vocational guidance;

(e)   studying and advising individuals on employment
      opportunities, career choices and further education or
      training that may be desirable;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Adviser, careers
  Analyst, job
  Analyst, occupational
  Counsellor, vocational guidance

2121  MATHEMATICIANS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Mathematicians and related professionals conduct research
and improve or  develop mathematical and actuarial concepts,
theories and operational methods  and techniques and advise on
or engage in their practical application in such  fields as
engineering, business or medicine as well as in other areas of 
natural, social or life sciences.

     Tasks include:

(a)   studying, improving and developing mathematical and
      actuarial theories and techniques:.

(b)   advising on or applying mathematical principles, models and
      techniques to a wide range of tasks in the fields of
      engineering, agronomy and medicine, as well as in other
      areas of natural, social or life sciences;

(c)   conducting logical analyses of management problems,
      especially in terms of input-output effectiveness, and
      formulating mathematical models of each problem usually for
      programming and solution by computer;

(d)   designing and putting into operation pension schemes and
      life, health, social and other types of insurance systems-.

(e)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(f)   performing related tasks

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Actuary
  Analyst, operations research
  Mathematician, applied mathematics
  Mathematician, pure mathematics

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Assistant. actuarial: 3434
  Assistant, mathematical: 3434
  Clerk, actuarial: 4122
  Statistician, mathematical: 2122

2131  COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGNERS AND ANALYSTS 
     Computer systems designers and analysts conduct research,
improve or  develop computing concepts and operational methods,
and  advise on or engage  in their practical application.

     Tasks include:

(a)   researching into the principles and operational methods of
      computers and computer-based systems for information
      communication and processing, planning, design, process
      control and production; development and maintenance of
      computer software, as well as data structures and
      databases, algorithms, artificial intelligence and
      robotics;

(b)   maintaining data dictionary and management systems of
      databases to ensure validity and safety of data;

(c)   contributing to and keeping up with technical developments
      of computers, peripherals, computing methods and software,
      their potential and limitations;


(d)   analysing computer users' requirements, by consultation,
to
      determine hardware and software configurations and
      development needs and preparing cost-benefit analyses-

(e)   writing programming specifications and preparing technical
      reports and instruction manuals specifying methods of
      operation and maintenance of the computer hardware and
      software configurations:.

(f)   designing, writing, maintaining and updating software which
      controls the overall functioning of computers and which
      links hardware and computer applications software

(g)   designing and implementing communication networks between
      different computer installations

(h)   developing improved methods and instruments, including
      computer languages, for writing, documenting and
      maintaining computer software,

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Analyst, communications/computers
  Analyst, database/computers
  Analyst, systems/computers
  Database administrator
  Designer, systems/computers
  Engineer, computer systems

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, computer applications 2139
  Technician, computer: 3121

2149  ARCHITECTS, ENGINEERS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS NOT
ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers architects, engineers and related
professionals  not classified elsewhere in Minor group 214,
Architects, engineers and related  professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  conducting research, advising on or developing
procedures concerning  efficiency of production and work
organisation, as well as those who perform  quantity surveying
and those who study and advise on technological aspects of 
particular materials, products and manufacturing processes.

     In such cases tasks would include

(a)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising  on planning and production methods;

(b)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising on methods to promote the efficient, safe and
      economic utilisation of personnel, material and equipment;

(c)   making recommendations regarding methods of work and
      sequence of operations and supervising their
      implementation;

(d)   making recommendations and supervising time and motion
      aspects of work organisation;

(e)   advising on most efficient layout of plant or
      establishment;

(f)   identifying potential hazards and introducing safety
      procedures and devices;

(g)   preparing and monitoring cost estimates and bills of
      quantities for architectural and construction projects;

(h)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular manufacturing processes, such as those related
      to glass, ceramics, textiles, leather products, wood, and
      printing;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, industrial efficiency
  Engineer, production
  Engineer, time and motion study
  Surveyor, quantity
  Technologist, textiles

2212  PHARMACOLOGISTS, PATHOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Pharmacologists, pathologists and related professionals
conduct research,  improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and apply  scientific knowledge relating to
anatomy, biochemistry, biophysics,  physiology, pathology, or
pharmacology, in such fields as medicine,  agriculture or
industry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   studying and conducting experiments 

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the chemical
      composition and processes of living organisms;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the life
      processes and functions of human, animal or plant organs,
      tissues, cells, glands and systems under normal and
      abnormal or exceptional conditions;

(e)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the nature,
      causes and development of human, animal or plant diseases
      and disorders;

(f)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the effects
      of drugs and other substances on the tissues, organs and
      physiological processes of human beings and animals, and
      improving existing or developing new drugs;

(g)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Anatomist
  Biochemist
  Biophysicist
  Pathologist
  Pharmacologist
  Physiologist

2213  AGRONOMISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Agronomists and related professionals conduct research and
improve or  develop concepts, theories and operational methods,
and apply scientific  knowledge relating to crop and animal
husbandry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   researching into field crops and grasses and developing new
      or improved cultivation methods;

(b)   researching into horticultural crops and developing new or
      improved cultivation methods;

(c)   researching into animal husbandry and developing new or
      improved breeding methods;

(d)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for tree propagation and culture, or planning and directing
      afforestation and exploitation of forest stands;

(e)   researching into characteristics, use capability and
      productivity of soils and applying findings to development
      of improved agricultural, horticultural and forestry
      practices;

(f)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for wildlife conservation;

(g)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for economic exploitation of grazing lands;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Agronomist
  Animal scientist
  Forestry scientist
  Horticulturist
  Soil scientist

8123  METAL-HEAT-TREATING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Metal-heat-treating-plant operators operate and monitor
plant altering  the physical properties of metal objects by
heating, cooling and chemical  treatment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring furnaces which heat and cool metal
     objects to relieve internal stresses, restore ductility and
     refine grain structure;

(b)  operating and monitoring furnaces which harden steel
     objects;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which imparts a hard skin and
     tough, ductile core to steel objects by treating them with
     chemicals, heating and quenching or cooling them;

(d)  operating and monitoring furnaces which reheat hardened
     steel objects to relieve stresses and to impart toughness;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Annealer
  Furnace-operator, hardening/metal
  Furnace-operator, heat-treating/metal

3472  RADIO, TELEVISION AND OTHER ANNOUNCERS

 
     Radio, television and other announcers read news bulletins,
conduct  interviews, and make other announcements or
introductions on radio, television  or in theatres and other
establishments.     Tasks include -

(a)   reading news bulletins and making other announcements on
      radio or television;

(b)   introducing performing artists or persons being
      interviewed, and making related announcements on radio,
      television, or in theatres, night-clubs and other
      establishments;

(c)   interviewing persons in public, especially on radio and
      television;

(d)   performing related tasks-

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Announcer, radio
  Announcer, television
  Compere
  Interviewer, media
  Newscaster

8223  METAL FINISHING-, PLATING AND COATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Metal finishing-, plating- and coating-machine operators
operate and  monitor equipment which finishes, plates and coats
metal articles or parts, in  order to give them improved
resistance to corrosion and abrasion, for  decorative purposes,
or to impart electrical or magnetic properties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which cleans metal
     articles in preparation for electroplating, galvanising,
     enamelling or similar processes;

(b)  operating and monitoring electroplating equipment;

(c)  operating and monitoring hot-dip equipment used to coat iron
     and steel products

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which automatically coat
     wire with non ferrous metal

(e)  operating and monitoring equipment used to spray molten
     metal or other substances on metal products to provide a
     protective or decorative coating or to build up worn or
     damaged surfaces;

(f)  operating and monitoring equipment used to impart a rust-
     resistant finish to metal articles by treating them with
     chemicals and heating them;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, coating/metal
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal
  Machine-operator, plating/metal

2442  SOCIOLOGISTS, ANTHROPOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS
 
     Sociologists, anthropologists and related professionals
investigate and  describe the social structure of societies, the
origin and evolution of  humanity, and the interdependence
between environmental conditions and human  activities, and make
the knowledge obtained available as a basis for policy 
decisions.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research on the origin, development, structure,
      social patterns, organisations and inter-relationships of
      human society;

(b)   tracing the origin and evolution of humanity through the
      study of changing characteristics and cultural and social
      institutions;

(c)   tracing the development of humanity through the material
      remains of its past, such as dwellings, temples, tools,
      pottery, coins, weapons, or sculpture;

(d)   studying physical and climatic aspects of areas and
      'regions, and correlating these findings with the economic,
      social and cultural activities;

(e)   advising on the practical application of these findings in
      the formulation of economic and social policies for
      population groups and regions, and for the development of
      markets;

(f)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Anthropologist
  Archaeologist
  Ethnologist
  Geographer
  Sociologist

6123  APIARISTS AND SERICULTURISTS
 
     Apiarists and sericulturists plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed, raise and tend insects such as
honey bees, silkworms or other  species, for sale or delivery of
honey, beeswax, silk cocoons, etc., on a  regular basis to
wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of insect products to be
     produced-,

(b)  purchasing insects, growing or purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending insects and collecting their
     products;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  maintaining buildings, machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Apiarist
  Apiary worker, skilled
  Sericulturist
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

2429  LEGAL PROFESSIONALS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers legal professionals not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 242, Legal professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who perform
legal functions  other than pleading or prosecuting cases or
presiding over judicial  proceedings.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   giving advice on legal aspects of various personal,
      business and administrative problems;

(b)   drawing up legal documents and contracts;

(c)   arranging property transfers;

(d)   determining, by inquest, the causes of any death not
      obviously due to natural causes;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Coroner
  Jurist, except lawyer or judge
  Notary

3417  APPRAISERS, VALUERS AND AUCTIONEERS
 
     Appraisers, valuers and auctioneers value property and
various goods and  assess losses covered by insurance policies,
or sell objects, properties and  goods by auction.     Tasks include -

(a)   determining the quality of value of raw materials, real
      estate, industria equipment, personal and household
      effects, works of art, gems and other objects offered for
      sale to be insured;

(b)   assessing the extent of damage or loss and liabilities of
      insurance companies and underwriters for losses covered by
      insurance policies;

(c)   selling by auction various kinds of property, cars,
      commodities, livestock, art, jewellery and other objects;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Appraiser
  Assessor, claims
  Assessor, insurance
  Auctioneer
  Inspector, claims
  Valuer

2213  AGRONOMISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Agronomists and related professionals conduct research and
improve or  develop concepts, theories and operational methods,
and apply scientific  knowledge relating to crop and animal
husbandry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   researching into field crops and grasses and developing new
      or improved cultivation methods;

(b)   researching into horticultural crops and developing new or
      improved cultivation methods;

(c)   researching into animal husbandry and developing new or
      improved breeding methods;

(d)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for tree propagation and culture, or planning and directing
      afforestation and exploitation of forest stands;

(e)   researching into characteristics, use capability and
      productivity of soils and applying findings to development
      of improved agricultural, horticultural and forestry
      practices;

(f)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for wildlife conservation;

(g)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for economic exploitation of grazing lands;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Agronomist
  Animal scientist
  Forestry scientist
  Horticulturist
  Soil scientist

2442  SOCIOLOGISTS, ANTHROPOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS
 
     Sociologists, anthropologists and related professionals
investigate and  describe the social structure of societies, the
origin and evolution of  humanity, and the interdependence
between environmental conditions and human  activities, and make
the knowledge obtained available as a basis for policy 
decisions.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research on the origin, development, structure,
      social patterns, organisations and inter-relationships of
      human society;

(b)   tracing the origin and evolution of humanity through the
      study of changing characteristics and cultural and social
      institutions;

(c)   tracing the development of humanity through the material
      remains of its past, such as dwellings, temples, tools,
      pottery, coins, weapons, or sculpture;

(d)   studying physical and climatic aspects of areas and
      'regions, and correlating these findings with the economic,
      social and cultural activities;

(e)   advising on the practical application of these findings in
      the formulation of economic and social policies for
      population groups and regions, and for the development of
      markets;

(f)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Anthropologist
  Archaeologist
  Ethnologist
  Geographer
  Sociologist

2460  RELIGIOUS PROFESSIONALS 
      
     Religious professionals function as perpetrators of the
sacred  traditions, practices and beliefs and celebrate or
administer at the rituals  of initiation, preside over ritual
reenactments of creative, redemptive or  salvatory events, and
offer sacrifices to the gods or to one God.

     Tasks include -

(a)   perpetuating sacred traditions, practices and beliefs;

(d)   conducting religious services, rites and ceremonies;

(c)   undertaking various administrative and social duties,
      including a ending committees and meetings of religious
      organisations;

(d)   providing spiritual and moral guidance in accordance with
      the religion professed;

(e)   propagating religious doctrines in own country or abroad;

(f)   preparing religious sermons and preachings;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bonze
  Imam
  Minister, religion
  Monk, professional
  Nun, professional
  Poojari
  Priest
  Rabbi

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Monk, associate professional - 3480
  Nun, associate professional - 3480
  Preacher, lay - 3480

2141  ARCHITECTS, TOWN AND TRAFFIC PLANNERS 
     Architects, town and traffic planners conduct research and
advise on and  design residential, commercial and industrial
buildings, layout of towns,  landscapes and traffic systems, and
plan and monitor their construction,  maintenance and
rehabilitation.

     Tasks include:

(a)   developing new or improved architectural theories and
      methods-

(b)   inspecting sites, consulting with clients and making
      recommendations regarding style and other aspects of
      construction;

(c)   designing buildings, preparing detailed drawings and plans
      for their construction and rehabilitation and making
      necessary contacts to ensure feasibility of projects
      regarding style, cost, timing, compliance with regulations,
      etc.;

(d)   identifying and finding best solutions for problems
      regarding function and quality of interior environments of
      buildings and making necessary designs, drawings and plans;

(e)   monitoring construction to ensure compliance with
      specifications;

(f)   planning layout and coordinating development of urban
      areas;

(g)   planning and designing the development of land areas for
      parks, schools, institutions, airports, roadways and
      related projects, and for commercial, industrial and
      residential sites;

(h)   planning and advising on routing and control of road and
      other traffic for efficiency and safety;

(i)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks; supervising other workers.

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Architect, building
  Architect, interior
  Architect, landscape
  Planner, traffic
  Planner, urban

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Decorator, interior: 3471
  Designer, decoration: 3471

2145  MECHANICAL ENGINEERS 
     Mechanical engineers conduct research and advise on, design,
and direct  production of machines, machinery and industrial
plant, equipment and systems,  and advise on and direct their
functioning, maintenance and repairs, or study  and advise on
technological aspects of particular materials, products or 
processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   advising on and designing machinery and tools for
      manufacturing, mining, construction, agricultural work, and
      other industrial purposes;

(b)   advising on and designing steam, internal combustion and
      other non-electric motors and engines used for propulsion
      of railway locomotives, road vehicles or aircraft, or for
      driving industrial or other machinery;

(c)   advising on and designing ships' propulsion systems, power
      plant, heating and ventilation systems, steering gear,
      pumps, and other mechanical equipment;

(d)   advising on and designing hulls and superstructures of
      ships and other vessels;

(e)   advising on and designing airframes, undercarriages and
      other equipment for aircraft;

(f)   advising on and designing road vehicle bodies, suspension
      systems, brakes and other components;

(g)   advising on and designing heating, ventilation and
      refrigeration systems and equipment;

(h)   advising on and designing mechanical plant and equipment
      for the release, control and utilisation of nuclear energy;

(i)   advising on and designing non-electrical parts of apparatus
      or products such as word processors, computers, precision
      instruments, cameras and projectors, etc.;

(j)   specifying and checking production or installation methods
      and work of agricultural and other machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment or
      systems;

(k)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      efficient functioning and safety of machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment, or
      systems;

(l)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(m)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      machines, machinery, tools, motors, engines, industrial
      plant, equipment, or systems;

(n)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(o)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;


(p)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(q)   performing related tasks;

(r)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, aeronautical
  Engineer, marine
  Engineer, mechanical
  Engineer, mechanical/agriculture
  Engineer, nuclear power
  Technologist, engineering/mechanical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, ship: 3141

2431  ARCHIVISTS AND CURATORS 
     Archivists and curators conduct research, collect, appraise
and ensure  the safekeeping and preservation of the contents of
archives and artifacts of  historical, cultural and artistic
interest, and of art and other objects and  organise exhibitions
at museums and art galleries.

     Tasks include -

(a)   researching into, appraising, and developing, organising
      and preserving historically significant and valuable
      documents such as government papers, private papers,
      photographs, sound recordings and films;

(b)   directing or carrying out the preparation of indexes,
      bibliographies, microfilm copies and other reference aids
      to the collected material and making them available to
      users;

(c)   researching into the origin, distribution and use of
      materials and objects of cultural and historical interest;

(d)   organising, developing and maintaining collections of
      artistic, cultural, scientific or historically significant
      items in museums or art galleries;

(e)   directing or undertaking classification and cataloguing of
      museum and art gallery collections and organising
      exhibitions;

(f)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(g)   per-forming related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Archivist
  Curator, art gallery
  Curator, museum

2454  CHOREOGRAPHERS AND DANCERS 
      
     Choreographers and dancers conceive and create or perform
dances.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and creating dances, which often convey a story,
      theme, idea or mood, by a pattern of steps, movements and
      gestures;

(b)   performing dances as a soloist, with a partner or as a
      member of a dancing group;

(c)   performing related tasks;

(d)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Choreographer
  Dancer, ballet

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Dancer, night-club - 3473

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

2452  SCULPTORS, PAINTERS AND RELATED ARTISTS 
     Sculptors, painters and related artists create and execute
works of art  by sculpting, painting, drawing, creating cartoons,
engraving or using related  techniques.

     Tasks include -

(a)   creating representational or abstract three-dimensional or
      relief forms by shaping and combining materials such as
      wood, stone, clay or metal;

(b)   creating representational or abstract drawings and
      paintings using pencils, ink, chalk, oil paints, water
      colours or through the application of other techniques;

(c)   creating drawings and engraving or etching them on metal,
      wood, or other materials;

(d)   creating cartoons to depict persons and events, often in
      caricature;

(e)   creating and executing designs and illustrations for books,
      magazines, advertising and similar purposes;

(f)   restoring damaged, soiled and faded paintings and other art
      objects;

(g)   painting miniatures;

(h)   per-forming related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Artist, commercial
  Cartoonist
  Engraver-etcher, artistic
  Painter, portrait
  Restorer, picture
  Sculptor

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Designer, industrial products - 3471

3474  CLOWNS, MAGICIANS, ACROBATS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS
 
     Clowns, magicians, acrobats and related associate
professionals entertain  audiences in circuses and other places
by performing a variety of acts.   
   
     Tasks include -

(a)   performing amusing antics and telling funny stories;

(b)   performing tricks of illusion and sleight of hand, and
      feats of hypnotism;

(c)   performing difficult and spectacular acrobatics, and
      gymnastic or juggling feats:

(d)   training and performing with animals;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Acrobat	
  Aerialist
  Clown
  Hypnotist
  Magician

2452  SCULPTORS, PAINTERS AND RELATED ARTISTS 
     Sculptors, painters and related artists create and execute
works of art  by sculpting, painting, drawing, creating cartoons,
engraving or using related  techniques.

     Tasks include -

(a)   creating representational or abstract three-dimensional or
      relief forms by shaping and combining materials such as
      wood, stone, clay or metal;

(b)   creating representational or abstract drawings and
      paintings using pencils, ink, chalk, oil paints, water
      colours or through the application of other techniques;

(c)   creating drawings and engraving or etching them on metal,
      wood, or other materials;

(d)   creating cartoons to depict persons and events, often in
      caricature;

(e)   creating and executing designs and illustrations for books,
      magazines, advertising and similar purposes;

(f)   restoring damaged, soiled and faded paintings and other art
      objects;

(g)   painting miniatures;

(h)   per-forming related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Artist, commercial
  Cartoonist
  Engraver-etcher, artistic
  Painter, portrait
  Restorer, picture
  Sculptor

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Designer, industrial products - 3471

3474  CLOWNS, MAGICIANS, ACROBATS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS
 
     Clowns, magicians, acrobats and related associate
professionals entertain  audiences in circuses and other places
by performing a variety of acts.   
   
     Tasks include -

(a)   performing amusing antics and telling funny stories;

(b)   performing tricks of illusion and sleight of hand, and
      feats of hypnotism;

(c)   performing difficult and spectacular acrobatics, and
      gymnastic or juggling feats:

(d)   training and performing with animals;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Acrobat	
  Aerialist
  Clown
  Hypnotist
  Magician

2452  SCULPTORS, PAINTERS AND RELATED ARTISTS 
     Sculptors, painters and related artists create and execute
works of art  by sculpting, painting, drawing, creating cartoons,
engraving or using related  techniques.

     Tasks include -

(a)   creating representational or abstract three-dimensional or
      relief forms by shaping and combining materials such as
      wood, stone, clay or metal;

(b)   creating representational or abstract drawings and
      paintings using pencils, ink, chalk, oil paints, water
      colours or through the application of other techniques;

(c)   creating drawings and engraving or etching them on metal,
      wood, or other materials;

(d)   creating cartoons to depict persons and events, often in
      caricature;

(e)   creating and executing designs and illustrations for books,
      magazines, advertising and similar purposes;

(f)   restoring damaged, soiled and faded paintings and other art
      objects;

(g)   painting miniatures;

(h)   per-forming related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Artist, commercial
  Cartoonist
  Engraver-etcher, artistic
  Painter, portrait
  Restorer, picture
  Sculptor

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Designer, industrial products - 3471

2147  MINING ENGINEERS, METALLURGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Mining engineers, metallurgists and related professionals
conduct  research, design and develop and maintain commercial-
scale methods of  extracting metals from their ores, or minerals,
water, oil or gas from the  earth and of developing new alloys,
ceramic and other materials, or study and  advise on
technological aspects of particular materials, products or
processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and advising on, designing and
      developing new or improved methods to deal with engineering
      aspects of mining and oil, gas or water extraction;

(b)   determining most suitable methods of efficient mining and
      extraction, types of machinery to be used, planning layout
      and directing construction of shafts and tunnels;

(c)   determining drilling site and devising methods of
      controlling the flow of water, oil or gas from wells;

(d)   planning and directing storage, initial treatment and
      transportation of water, oil or gas;

(e)   establishing safety standards and procedures and first-aid
      facilities, especially underground;

(f)   conducting research, developing methods of extracting
      metals from their ores and advising on their application;

(g)   investigating properties of metals and alloys, developing
      new alloys and advising on and supervising technical
      aspects of metal and alloy manufacture and processing;

(h)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials or processes;

(i)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists in particular with geologists and
      geophysicists;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, mining
  Engineer, mining/coal
  Engineer, mining/metal
  Engineer, mining/petroleum and natural gas
  Metallurgist, extractive
  Technologist, extractive

8281  MECHANICAL-MACHINERY ASSEMBLERS
 

     Mechanical-machinery assemblers assemble the components or
parts of  mechanical machinery, according to strictly laid down
procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts of mechanical machinery,
     engines and vehicles, according to strictly laid down
     procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, aircraft
  Assembler, mechanical machinery
  Assembler, vehicle
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Operator, assembly-line/automated 8171

8283  ELECTRONIC-EQUIPMENT ASSEMBLERS
 

     Electronic-equipment assemblers assemble the components or
parts of  electronic equipment, according to strictly laid down
procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts of electronic equipment,
     according to strictly laid down procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, electronic equipment

8290  OTHER MACHINE OPERATORS AND ASSEMBLERS
 

     Other machine operators and assemblers operate and monitor
machines which  pack, label and, if needed, add revenue stamps
to products, packages and  containers, or assemble, according to
strictly laid down procedures, products  whose component parts
are made of a wide range of materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which wrap and pack
     various products, including liquid ones, for storage or
     shipment;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which, by gluing or other
     methods, label products, packages and various containers,
     or add revenue stamps;

(c)  assembling, according to strictly laid down procedures,
     products whose component parts are made of a very wide range
     of materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, composite products
  Machine-operator, labelling
  Machine-operator, packing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Packer, hand - 9322

8281  MECHANICAL-MACHINERY ASSEMBLERS
 

     Mechanical-machinery assemblers assemble the components or
parts of  mechanical machinery, according to strictly laid down
procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts of mechanical machinery,
     engines and vehicles, according to strictly laid down
     procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, aircraft
  Assembler, mechanical machinery
  Assembler, vehicle
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Operator, assembly-line/automated 8171

8282  ELECTRICAL-EQUIPMENT ASSEMBLERS
 

     Electrical-equipment assemblers assemble the components or
parts of  electrical equipment, according to strictly laid down
procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts of electrical equipment,
     according to strictly laid down procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, electrical equipment

8283  ELECTRONIC-EQUIPMENT ASSEMBLERS
 

     Electronic-equipment assemblers assemble the components or
parts of  electronic equipment, according to strictly laid down
procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts of electronic equipment,
     according to strictly laid down procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, electronic equipment

8281  MECHANICAL-MACHINERY ASSEMBLERS
 

     Mechanical-machinery assemblers assemble the components or
parts of  mechanical machinery, according to strictly laid down
procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts of mechanical machinery,
     engines and vehicles, according to strictly laid down
     procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, aircraft
  Assembler, mechanical machinery
  Assembler, vehicle
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Operator, assembly-line/automated 8171

8284  METAL-, RUBBER- AND PLASTIC-PRODUCTS ASSEMBLERS
 

     Metal-, rubber- and plastic-products assemblers perform
limited,  specialised tasks in assembling the metal, rubber or
plastic components or  parts of various types of products such
as toys, sports articles, bicycles,  etc., according to strictly
laid down procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the metal, rubber or plastic components or parts
     of various types of products, according to strictly laid
     down procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, metal products
  Assembler, plastic products
  Assembler, rubber products

8285  WOOD AND RELATED PRODUCTS ASSEMBLERS
 

     Wood and related products assemblers assemble the components
or parts  made from wood or related materials, of various types
of products, according  to strictly laid down procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts made from wood or related
     materials, of various types of products, according to
     strictly laid down procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, wood products

8283  ELECTRONIC-EQUIPMENT ASSEMBLERS
 

     Electronic-equipment assemblers assemble the components or
parts of  electronic equipment, according to strictly laid down
procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts of electronic equipment,
     according to strictly laid down procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, electronic equipment

8281  MECHANICAL-MACHINERY ASSEMBLERS
 

     Mechanical-machinery assemblers assemble the components or
parts of  mechanical machinery, according to strictly laid down
procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts of mechanical machinery,
     engines and vehicles, according to strictly laid down
     procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, aircraft
  Assembler, mechanical machinery
  Assembler, vehicle
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Operator, assembly-line/automated 8171

8286  PAPERBOARD, TEXTILE AND RELATED PRODUCTS ASSEMBLERS
 

     Paperboard, textile and related products assemblers assemble
the  components or parts made from paperboard, textile, leather
and related  materials, of various types of products, according
to strictly laid down  procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts made from paperboard,
     textile, leather and related materials, of various types of
     products, according to strictly laid down procedures;

(b)  attaching metal, plastic or other fittings

(c)  performing related tasks-'

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, leather products
  Assembler, paperboard products
  Assembler, textile products

8281  MECHANICAL-MACHINERY ASSEMBLERS
 

     Mechanical-machinery assemblers assemble the components or
parts of  mechanical machinery, according to strictly laid down
procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts of mechanical machinery,
     engines and vehicles, according to strictly laid down
     procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, aircraft
  Assembler, mechanical machinery
  Assembler, vehicle
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Operator, assembly-line/automated 8171

8284  METAL-, RUBBER- AND PLASTIC-PRODUCTS ASSEMBLERS
 

     Metal-, rubber- and plastic-products assemblers perform
limited,  specialised tasks in assembling the metal, rubber or
plastic components or  parts of various types of products such
as toys, sports articles, bicycles,  etc., according to strictly
laid down procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the metal, rubber or plastic components or parts
     of various types of products, according to strictly laid
     down procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, metal products
  Assembler, plastic products
  Assembler, rubber products

8283  ELECTRONIC-EQUIPMENT ASSEMBLERS
 

     Electronic-equipment assemblers assemble the components or
parts of  electronic equipment, according to strictly laid down
procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts of electronic equipment,
     according to strictly laid down procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, electronic equipment

8281  MECHANICAL-MACHINERY ASSEMBLERS
 

     Mechanical-machinery assemblers assemble the components or
parts of  mechanical machinery, according to strictly laid down
procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts of mechanical machinery,
     engines and vehicles, according to strictly laid down
     procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, aircraft
  Assembler, mechanical machinery
  Assembler, vehicle
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Operator, assembly-line/automated 8171

8283  ELECTRONIC-EQUIPMENT ASSEMBLERS
 

     Electronic-equipment assemblers assemble the components or
parts of  electronic equipment, according to strictly laid down
procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts of electronic equipment,
     according to strictly laid down procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, electronic equipment

8286  PAPERBOARD, TEXTILE AND RELATED PRODUCTS ASSEMBLERS
 

     Paperboard, textile and related products assemblers assemble
the  components or parts made from paperboard, textile, leather
and related  materials, of various types of products, according
to strictly laid down  procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts made from paperboard,
     textile, leather and related materials, of various types of
     products, according to strictly laid down procedures;

(b)  attaching metal, plastic or other fittings

(c)  performing related tasks-'

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, leather products
  Assembler, paperboard products
  Assembler, textile products

8284  METAL-, RUBBER- AND PLASTIC-PRODUCTS ASSEMBLERS
 

     Metal-, rubber- and plastic-products assemblers perform
limited,  specialised tasks in assembling the metal, rubber or
plastic components or  parts of various types of products such
as toys, sports articles, bicycles,  etc., according to strictly
laid down procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the metal, rubber or plastic components or parts
     of various types of products, according to strictly laid
     down procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, metal products
  Assembler, plastic products
  Assembler, rubber products

8283  ELECTRONIC-EQUIPMENT ASSEMBLERS
 

     Electronic-equipment assemblers assemble the components or
parts of  electronic equipment, according to strictly laid down
procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts of electronic equipment,
     according to strictly laid down procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, electronic equipment

8281  MECHANICAL-MACHINERY ASSEMBLERS
 

     Mechanical-machinery assemblers assemble the components or
parts of  mechanical machinery, according to strictly laid down
procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts of mechanical machinery,
     engines and vehicles, according to strictly laid down
     procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, aircraft
  Assembler, mechanical machinery
  Assembler, vehicle
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Operator, assembly-line/automated 8171

8283  ELECTRONIC-EQUIPMENT ASSEMBLERS
 

     Electronic-equipment assemblers assemble the components or
parts of  electronic equipment, according to strictly laid down
procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts of electronic equipment,
     according to strictly laid down procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, electronic equipment

6141  FORESTRY WORKERS AND LOGGERS
 
     Forestry workers and loggers carry out the necessary
operations to  cultivate, conserve and exploit forests, for sale
or delivery of forestry  products on a regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a) establishing and caring for forest stands;

(b)  locating trees to be felled and estimating volume of timber;

(c)  trimming, topping and felling trees and sawing them into
     logs;

(d)  shaping rough wooden products from logs at felling site;

(e)  stacking logs, loading them in chutes or floating them down
     rivers;

(f)  keeping watch to detect forest fires and participating in
     firefighting operations;

(g)  delivering or marketing forestry products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Climber, logging
  Cruiser, timber
  Feller-bucker, tree
  Forestry worker, skilled
  Logger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/forestry
        - 1221
  General manager, forestry - 1311
  Labourer, forestry - 9212
  Managing director, enterprise/forestry - 1210
  Operator, forestry machinery - 8331

8284  METAL-, RUBBER- AND PLASTIC-PRODUCTS ASSEMBLERS
 

     Metal-, rubber- and plastic-products assemblers perform
limited,  specialised tasks in assembling the metal, rubber or
plastic components or  parts of various types of products such
as toys, sports articles, bicycles,  etc., according to strictly
laid down procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the metal, rubber or plastic components or parts
     of various types of products, according to strictly laid
     down procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, metal products
  Assembler, plastic products
  Assembler, rubber products

8283  ELECTRONIC-EQUIPMENT ASSEMBLERS
 

     Electronic-equipment assemblers assemble the components or
parts of  electronic equipment, according to strictly laid down
procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts of electronic equipment,
     according to strictly laid down procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, electronic equipment

8281  MECHANICAL-MACHINERY ASSEMBLERS
 

     Mechanical-machinery assemblers assemble the components or
parts of  mechanical machinery, according to strictly laid down
procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts of mechanical machinery,
     engines and vehicles, according to strictly laid down
     procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, aircraft
  Assembler, mechanical machinery
  Assembler, vehicle
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Operator, assembly-line/automated 8171

8286  PAPERBOARD, TEXTILE AND RELATED PRODUCTS ASSEMBLERS
 

     Paperboard, textile and related products assemblers assemble
the  components or parts made from paperboard, textile, leather
and related  materials, of various types of products, according
to strictly laid down  procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts made from paperboard,
     textile, leather and related materials, of various types of
     products, according to strictly laid down procedures;

(b)  attaching metal, plastic or other fittings

(c)  performing related tasks-'

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, leather products
  Assembler, paperboard products
  Assembler, textile products

8281  MECHANICAL-MACHINERY ASSEMBLERS
 

     Mechanical-machinery assemblers assemble the components or
parts of  mechanical machinery, according to strictly laid down
procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts of mechanical machinery,
     engines and vehicles, according to strictly laid down
     procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, aircraft
  Assembler, mechanical machinery
  Assembler, vehicle
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Operator, assembly-line/automated 8171

8283  ELECTRONIC-EQUIPMENT ASSEMBLERS
 

     Electronic-equipment assemblers assemble the components or
parts of  electronic equipment, according to strictly laid down
procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts of electronic equipment,
     according to strictly laid down procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, electronic equipment

8285  WOOD AND RELATED PRODUCTS ASSEMBLERS
 

     Wood and related products assemblers assemble the components
or parts  made from wood or related materials, of various types
of products, according  to strictly laid down procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts made from wood or related
     materials, of various types of products, according to
     strictly laid down procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, wood products

8281  MECHANICAL-MACHINERY ASSEMBLERS
 

     Mechanical-machinery assemblers assemble the components or
parts of  mechanical machinery, according to strictly laid down
procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts of mechanical machinery,
     engines and vehicles, according to strictly laid down
     procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, aircraft
  Assembler, mechanical machinery
  Assembler, vehicle
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Operator, assembly-line/automated 8171

3417  APPRAISERS, VALUERS AND AUCTIONEERS
 
     Appraisers, valuers and auctioneers value property and
various goods and  assess losses covered by insurance policies,
or sell objects, properties and  goods by auction.     Tasks include -

(a)   determining the quality of value of raw materials, real
      estate, industria equipment, personal and household
      effects, works of art, gems and other objects offered for
      sale to be insured;

(b)   assessing the extent of damage or loss and liabilities of
      insurance companies and underwriters for losses covered by
      insurance policies;

(c)   selling by auction various kinds of property, cars,
      commodities, livestock, art, jewellery and other objects;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Appraiser
  Assessor, claims
  Assessor, insurance
  Auctioneer
  Inspector, claims
  Valuer

MINOR
 
3434  STATISTICAL, MATHEMATICAL AND RELATED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS

     Statistical, mathematical and related associate
professionals assist in  planning the collection, processing and
presentation of mathematical,  statistical or actuarial data and
in carrying out these operations, usually  working under the
guidance of Mathematicians and related professionals, or 
Statisticians.     Tasks include -

(a)   assisting in planning and performing mathematical,
      actuarial, 
     statistical, accounting and related calculations;

(b)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for statistical census and
      survey operations;

(c)   performing technical tasks connected with establishing,
      maintaining and using registers and sampling frames for
      census and survey operations;

(d)   performing technical tasks connected with data collection
      and quality control operations in censuses and surveys;

(e)   using standard computer software packages to perform
      mathematical, actuarial statistical accounting and related
      calculations;

(f)   preparing mathematical, actuarial, statistical, accounting
      and other results for presentation in graphical or tabular
      form;

(g)   applying knowledge of mathematical, actuarial, statistical,
      accounting and related principles and practices in order
      to identify and solve problems arising in the course of
      their work;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Assistant, accounting
  Assistant, actuarial
  Assistant, mathematical
  Assistant, statistical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Actuary - 2121
  Clerk, statistical - 4122
  Mathematician, actuarial science 2121
  Statistician - 2122

3432  LEGAL AND RELATED BUSINESS ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Legal and related business associate professionals assist
Corporate  managers, General managers, and Legal Professionals,
as well as various  business professionals in connection with
legal matters, including those  related to insurance contracts,
granting of loans and other financial  transactions.     Tasks include -

(a)   examining, or making arrangements for examining, legal
      records and other relevant documents;

(b)   preparing papers summarising legal positions, or setting
      out conditions of loans or insurance;

(c)   advising clients and agents on legal or technical matters
      relating to their particular cases;

(d)   preparing documents relating to transfer of real estate,
      stocks or other matters requiring formal registration;

(e)   checking validity of documents and forwarding them to
      company's share register;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Bailiff
  Clerk, conveyancing
  Clerk, court
  clerk, judge's
  Clerk, law

3121  COMPUTER ASSISTANTS 
     Computer assistants provide assistance to users of micro-
computers and  standard software systems at installation and when
problems occur, install new  computer programs on particular
hardware and operating systems configurations,  install new
peripheral units, and maintain and update existing programs by 
making minor changes and adjustments to them under the guidance
of Computing  professionals.

     Tasks include -

(a)   assisting users of micro-computers and standard software
      systems at installation and when problems occur;

(b)   installing new computer programs on particular hardware and
      operating systems configurations;

(c)   installing new peripheral units and making necessary
      parameter adjustments in operating systems and drives;

(d)   installing, maintaining and updating computer programs by
      making minor changes and adjustments to them, under the
      guidance of Computing professionals ;

(e)   maintaining and updating documentation of computer programs
      and installations;

(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices in the area
      of programming and computing in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Assistant, computer/programming
  Assistant, computer/systems analysis
  Assistant, computer/users' services

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Mechanic, electronics/computer - 7243
  Technician, engineering/electronics - 3114

3431  ADMINISTRATIVE SECRETARIES AND RELATED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS
 
     Administrative secretaries and related associate
professionals implement  and support the communication,
documentation and internal managerial  co-ordination activities
of an organisational unit to assist the head of unit  and other
members of staff, and make verbatim reports of proceedings.     Tasks include -

(a)   drafting administrative correspondence and minutes;

(b)   obtaining, proposing and monitoring deadlines and follow-up
      dates;

(c)   screening requests for meetings, scheduling and organising
      meetings, scheduling and organising meetings and travel
      arrangements for the head of unit and other members of
      staff:

(d)   assisting in the preparation of budgets, monitoring of
      expenditures, drafting of contracts and purchasing or
      acquisition orders;

(e)   assisting the head of unit and other staff with inquiries
      of an administrative or organisational nature;

(f)   assisting the head of unit in organising and hosting
      hospitality functions for outside visitors or members of
      staff;

(g)   making verbatim reports of proceedings in legislative
      assemblies, courts of law or other places in shorthand or
      by other means;

(h)   writing and answering business or technical letters and
      other similar correspondence;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.
  
Examples of the occupations classified here:   Administrative secretary
  Assistant, correspondence
  Verbatim reporter
  
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Secretary - 4115

3225  DENTAL ASSISTANTS 
     Dental assistants carry out advisory, diagnostic, preventive
and curative  dental tasks, more limited in scope and complexity
than those carried out by  Dentists, and they assist Dentists by
preparing and taking care of instruments  and other equipment,
preparing materials and helping patients prepare for  examination
and treatment.

     Tasks include -


(a)   advising communities and individuals on dental hygiene,
      diet  and other preventive dental measures;

(b)   conducting dental examinations to make diagnoses and refer
      more difficult cases to Dentists when needed;

(c)   cleaning teeth, preparing cavities and placing fillings;

(d)   performing certain types of prosthetic work and some
      surgical procedures;

(e)   preparing and taking care of dental instruments and
      equipment;

(f)   preparing dental materials;

(g)   helping patients prepare for examination or treatment;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Assistant, dental
  Assistant, dental/school service
  Hygienist, dental

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Aid, dental - 5132
  Mechanic, dental - 7311

3432  LEGAL AND RELATED BUSINESS ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Legal and related business associate professionals assist
Corporate  managers, General managers, and Legal Professionals,
as well as various  business professionals in connection with
legal matters, including those  related to insurance contracts,
granting of loans and other financial  transactions.     Tasks include -

(a)   examining, or making arrangements for examining, legal
      records and other relevant documents;

(b)   preparing papers summarising legal positions, or setting
      out conditions of loans or insurance;

(c)   advising clients and agents on legal or technical matters
      relating to their particular cases;

(d)   preparing documents relating to transfer of real estate,
      stocks or other matters requiring formal registration;

(e)   checking validity of documents and forwarding them to
      company's share register;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Bailiff
  Clerk, conveyancing
  Clerk, court
  clerk, judge's
  Clerk, law

MINOR
 
3434  STATISTICAL, MATHEMATICAL AND RELATED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS

     Statistical, mathematical and related associate
professionals assist in  planning the collection, processing and
presentation of mathematical,  statistical or actuarial data and
in carrying out these operations, usually  working under the
guidance of Mathematicians and related professionals, or 
Statisticians.     Tasks include -

(a)   assisting in planning and performing mathematical,
      actuarial, 
     statistical, accounting and related calculations;

(b)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for statistical census and
      survey operations;

(c)   performing technical tasks connected with establishing,
      maintaining and using registers and sampling frames for
      census and survey operations;

(d)   performing technical tasks connected with data collection
      and quality control operations in censuses and surveys;

(e)   using standard computer software packages to perform
      mathematical, actuarial statistical accounting and related
      calculations;

(f)   preparing mathematical, actuarial, statistical, accounting
      and other results for presentation in graphical or tabular
      form;

(g)   applying knowledge of mathematical, actuarial, statistical,
      accounting and related principles and practices in order
      to identify and solve problems arising in the course of
      their work;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Assistant, accounting
  Assistant, actuarial
  Assistant, mathematical
  Assistant, statistical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Actuary - 2121
  Clerk, statistical - 4122
  Mathematician, actuarial science 2121
  Statistician - 2122

3221  MEDICAL ASSISTANTS 
     Medical assistants carry out advisory, diagnostic,
preventive and  curative medical tasks, more limited in scope and
complexity than those  carried out by Medical doctors.  They work
independently or with the guidance  and supervision of Medical
doctors in institutions or in the field as part of  the public
health service, and may work mainly with diseases and disorders 
common in their region, or mainly apply specific types of
treatment.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising communities and individuals on birth control,
      hygiene, diet and other preventive medical measures;

(b)   conducting medical examinations to make diagnoses, or refer
      more difficult cases to Medical doctors if possible;

(c)   prescribing medicine and giving treatment for diagnosed
      illnesses, disorders or injuries;

(d)   performing simple surgical operations;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Assistant, medical

3131  PHOTOGRAPHERS AND IMAGE AND SOUND RECORDING EQUIPMENT
OPERATORS 
     Photographers and image and sound recording equipment
operators take  photographs, control motion picture and video
cameras and other equipment to  record and edit images and sound.

 
    Tasks include -

(a)   taking photographs for advertising, or other commercial,
      industrial or scientific purposes and to illustrate stories
      and articles in newspapers, magazines and other
      publications;

(b)   taking portrait photographs of persons and groups of
      persons;

(c)   setting and operating motion picture, video, microscopic
      and other specialised cameras, including those for aerial
      photography, to record images;

(d)   controlling equipment to record sound for motion pictures,
      videotapes, gramophone records, audio tapes, digital discs,
      direct broadcasting or other purposes.,

(e)   controlling equipment to edit and mix image and sound
      recordings to ensure satisfactory quality and to create
      special image and sound effects;

(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of image and
      sound recording and editing in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, camera/motion picture
  Operator, recording equipment/sound
  Operator, studio equipment/television
  Photographer

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Mechanic, electronics - 7243
  Photographer, photogravure - 7343
  Photolithographer - 7343
  Repairer, photographic equipment 7311

3228  PHARMACEUTICAL ASSISTANTS 
     Pharmaceutical assistants dispense and prepare medicaments,
lotions and  mixtures under the guidance of Pharmacists, in
pharmacies, hospitals and  dispensaries.

     Tasks include -

(a)   preparing medicaments and other pharmaceutical compounds
      under the guidance of Pharmacists;

(b)   dispensing medicines and drugs and giving written and oral
      instructions on their use, as prescribed by Medical
      doctors, Veterinarians or other authorised workers;

(c)   cleaning and preparing equipment and containers used to
      prepare and dispense medicine and pharmaceutical compounds;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Assistant, pharmaceutical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Aid, pharmacy - 5139

5220  SHOP SALESPERSONS AND DEMONSTRATORS
 
     Shop salespersons and demonstrators demonstrate and sell
goods in  wholesale establishments to retailers and large-scale
consumers or to  customers in retail establishments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  moving goods to be sold from storage area to sales area and
     placing them on display;

(b)  ascertaining nature and quality of the product desired by
     the customer;

(c)  assisting customer in making a choice;

(d)  quoting prices, credit terms and discounts;

(e)  packing and arranging delivery of goods, if necessary;

(f)  writing bill, invoice, docket or receipt;

(g)  verifying cashier's receipt, if necessary;

(h)  giving demonstrations of articles on sale in order to inform
     customers about their characteristics and mode of use, as
     well as to stimulate buying interest;

(i)  performing related tasks;

(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Demonstrator
  Salesperson, retail establishment
  Salesperson, wholesale establishment
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Salesperson, kiosk - 5230
  Salesperson, market - 5230
  Salesperson, street stall - 5230

3432  LEGAL AND RELATED BUSINESS ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Legal and related business associate professionals assist
Corporate  managers, General managers, and Legal Professionals,
as well as various  business professionals in connection with
legal matters, including those  related to insurance contracts,
granting of loans and other financial  transactions.     Tasks include -

(a)   examining, or making arrangements for examining, legal
      records and other relevant documents;

(b)   preparing papers summarising legal positions, or setting
      out conditions of loans or insurance;

(c)   advising clients and agents on legal or technical matters
      relating to their particular cases;

(d)   preparing documents relating to transfer of real estate,
      stocks or other matters requiring formal registration;

(e)   checking validity of documents and forwarding them to
      company's share register;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Bailiff
  Clerk, conveyancing
  Clerk, court
  clerk, judge's
  Clerk, law

MINOR
 
3434  STATISTICAL, MATHEMATICAL AND RELATED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS

     Statistical, mathematical and related associate
professionals assist in  planning the collection, processing and
presentation of mathematical,  statistical or actuarial data and
in carrying out these operations, usually  working under the
guidance of Mathematicians and related professionals, or 
Statisticians.     Tasks include -

(a)   assisting in planning and performing mathematical,
      actuarial, 
     statistical, accounting and related calculations;

(b)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for statistical census and
      survey operations;

(c)   performing technical tasks connected with establishing,
      maintaining and using registers and sampling frames for
      census and survey operations;

(d)   performing technical tasks connected with data collection
      and quality control operations in censuses and surveys;

(e)   using standard computer software packages to perform
      mathematical, actuarial statistical accounting and related
      calculations;

(f)   preparing mathematical, actuarial, statistical, accounting
      and other results for presentation in graphical or tabular
      form;

(g)   applying knowledge of mathematical, actuarial, statistical,
      accounting and related principles and practices in order
      to identify and solve problems arising in the course of
      their work;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Assistant, accounting
  Assistant, actuarial
  Assistant, mathematical
  Assistant, statistical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Actuary - 2121
  Clerk, statistical - 4122
  Mathematician, actuarial science 2121
  Statistician - 2122

3227  VETERINARY ASSISTANTS 
     Veterinary assistants carry out advisory, diagnostic,
preventive and  curative veterinary tasks, more limited in scope
and complexity than those  carried out by Veterinarians, and they
assist Veterinarians by preparing and  taking care of instruments
and other equipment, preparing materials and  getting animals
ready for examination and treatment.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising communities and individuals on the treatment of
      animals and their diseases and injuries;

(b)   conducting examinations of animals to make diagnoses or
      refer more difficult cases to Veterinarians when needed;

(c)   treating ill or injured animals, especially for common
      diseases and disorders;

(d)   preparing and taking care of instruments and materials used
      in the treatment of animals;

(e)   carrying out technical tasks connected with artificial
      insemination of animals;

(f)   getting animals ready for examination or treatment and
      holding them during treatment, when necessary;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 Assistant, veterinary
  Assistant, veterinary/artificial insemination
  Vaccinator, veterinary

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Aid, veterinary - 5139

5151  ASTROLOGERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Astrologers and related workers predict future events in
persons' lives  by practising astrology or related techniques and
give warnings and advice on  possible courses of action.

     Tasks include -

(a)  casting horoscopes of individuals at birth or later to
     recount past and forecast future events and conditions of
     their lives;

(b)  determining auspicious times for various human activities
     such as inaugurations, marriages, journeys and religious and
     other ceremonies;

(c)  studying the influence of the constellation of stars and of
     other phenomena on a person's life and situation;

(d)  advising individuals on precautions to be taken to avoid
     evil influences;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Astrologer

2111  PHYSICISTS AND ASTRONOMERS 
     Physicists and astronomers conduct research, improve or
develop concepts,  theories and operational methods, or apply
scientific knowledge relating to  physics and astronomy in
industrial, medical, military or other fields.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research, and improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods related to physics and
      astronomy-.

(b)   conducting experiments, tests and analyses in fields such
      as mechanics, thermodynamics, optics, sonics, electricity,
      magnetism, electronics and nuclear physics, or astronomy;

(c)   conducting experiments, tests and analyses of the structure
      and properties of matter in solid state and its behaviour
      under temperature, pressure, stress and other conditions;

(d)   evaluating results of investigations and experiments and
      expressing conclusions, mainly using mathematical
      techniques and models;

(e)   developing or improving industrial, medical, military and
      other practical applications of the principles and
      techniques of physics or astronomy'.

(f)   observing, analysing and interpreting celestial phenomena
      and developing methods and techniques to be used in fields
      such as navigation or space exploration;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Astronomer

  Physicist

3475  ATHLETES, SPORTSPERSONS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Athletes, sportspersons and related associate professionals
participate  in competitive sporting events, conduct sports
training, compile rules  concerning sporting events, and control
the progress of these events.     Tasks include -

(a)   participating in competitive sporting events;

(b)   conducting sports training to develop ability in and
      knowledge of the sport;

(c)   compiling rules concerning the conduct of sporting
      competitions, and controlling the progress of these events;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Athlete
  Boxer
  Coach, sports
  Official, sports
  Wrestler

5111  TRAVEL ATTENDANTS AND TRAVEL STEWARDS
 
     Travel attendants and travel stewards render personal
services to ensure  the comfort and safety of passengers, serve
meals and beverages, or plan and  coordinate housekeeping and
social activities on ships.

     Tasks include -

(a)  greeting passengers entering aircraft, conducting them to
     their seats, ensuring that seat-belts are fastened and -no
     smoking" and similar signs are obeyed;

(b)  explaining the use of safety equipment such as life belts
     and oxygen masks;

(c)  distributing reading material, headphones, blankets and
     similar items, and answering passengers' inquiries;

(d)  serving pre-prepared meals as well as beverages;

(e)  selling duty-free goods;

(f)  administering minor medical aid to passengers in need;

(g)  taking appropriate action in case of emergencies or
     accidents;

(h)  taking care of passengers at airports;

(i)  taking care of general needs and comfort of ship's
     passengers, including keeping cabins tidy and serving meals
     in them, on request;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Attendant, airport
  Attendant, flight
  Steward, ship

9152  DOORKEEPERS, WATCHPERSONS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Doorkeepers, watchpersons and related workers undertake
doorkeeping  duties in apartment houses and other buildings,
attend parking places, watch  houses and other properties to
prevent illegal entry or theft and detect fire  or other hazards,
collect tickets, or perform ushering duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  doorkeeping in hotels and helping guests, especially on
     their arrival and departure, with luggage, keys, or
     information about directions, etc. ;

(b)  doorkeeping in apartment houses and other buildings,
     checking the right-of-entry of callers and giving them
     requested information;

(c)  watching houses and other properties to prevent illegal
     entry or theft, fire or other hazards;

(d)  ushering people into courtrooms, sporting places and similar
     
     establishments;

(e)  collecting tickets in cinemas, theatres, circuses and
     related places;

(f)  taking charge of cloakrooms or lavatories in public places;

(g)  attending parking places;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Attendant, cloakroom
  Collector, ticket
  Concierge, hotel desk
  Doorkeeper
  Guard, museum
  Porter, hotel
  Watchman
  Watchwoman
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Bodyguard - 5169
  Concierge, building - 9141
  Game-warden - 5169
  Patrolman, security - 5169
  Patrolwoman security - 5169
  Porter, luggage - 9151

5141  HAIRDRESSERS, BARBERS, BEAUTICIANS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Hairdressers, barbers, beauticians and related workers cut
and dress  hair, shave and trim beards, give beauty treatment,
apply cosmetics and  make-up and give other kinds of treatment
to individuals in order to improve their appearance.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting, washing, tinting and waving hair;

(b)  cutting and washing hair and shaving or trimming beards;

(c)  giving scalp treatment;

(d)  fitting wigs according to customers' requirements;

(e)  cleaning and applying creams, lotions and related products
     to face and parts of body;

(f)  giving facial and body massage;

(g)  applying make-up to clients of a beauty parlour;

(h)  applying make-up to actors and other performers;

(i)  cleaning, shaping and polishing finger and toe-nails and
     treating minor ailments of the human foot such as corns,
     calluses or deformed toe-nails;

(j)  attending to clients taking baths and administering
     elementary massage;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Attendant, bath
  Barber
  Beautician
  Chiropodist
  Hairdresser
  Manicurist

5123  WAITERS, WAITRESSES AND BARTENDERS

 
     Waiters, waitresses and bartenders serve food and beverages
in  commercially-operated dining and drinking places, clubs,
institutions and  canteens, on board ships and on passenger
trains.

     Tasks include -

(a)  serving food and beverages;

(b)  advising on the choice of wines and serving them;

(c)  serving alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks at a bar;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Bartender
  Waiter
  Waiter, head
  Waitress
  Waitress, wine

9152  DOORKEEPERS, WATCHPERSONS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Doorkeepers, watchpersons and related workers undertake
doorkeeping  duties in apartment houses and other buildings,
attend parking places, watch  houses and other properties to
prevent illegal entry or theft and detect fire  or other hazards,
collect tickets, or perform ushering duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  doorkeeping in hotels and helping guests, especially on
     their arrival and departure, with luggage, keys, or
     information about directions, etc. ;

(b)  doorkeeping in apartment houses and other buildings,
     checking the right-of-entry of callers and giving them
     requested information;

(c)  watching houses and other properties to prevent illegal
     entry or theft, fire or other hazards;

(d)  ushering people into courtrooms, sporting places and similar
     
     establishments;

(e)  collecting tickets in cinemas, theatres, circuses and
     related places;

(f)  taking charge of cloakrooms or lavatories in public places;

(g)  attending parking places;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Attendant, cloakroom
  Collector, ticket
  Concierge, hotel desk
  Doorkeeper
  Guard, museum
  Porter, hotel
  Watchman
  Watchwoman
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Bodyguard - 5169
  Concierge, building - 9141
  Game-warden - 5169
  Patrolman, security - 5169
  Patrolwoman security - 5169
  Porter, luggage - 9151

5132  INSTITUTION-BASED PERSONAL CARE WORKERS
 
     Institution-based personal care workers perform simple tasks
to assist  medical, nursing, midwifery and dental professionals
or associate 
professionals in their duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing patients for examination or treatment;

(b)  changing bed-linen and helping patients with their toilet;

(c)  providing hot-water bottles and other comforts for patients;

(d)  serving and collecting food trays and feeding patients
     needing help;

(e)  sterilising surgical and other instruments and equipment;

(f)  assisting dentists by adjusting lights and passing tools and
     materials as requested;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Aid, dental
  Aid, nursing/clinic
  Aid, nursing/hospital
  Ambulance man
  Ambulance woman
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Aid, nursing/home - 5133
  Nurse, associate professional - 3231
  Nurse, professional - 2230

8333  CRANE, HOIST AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Crane, hoist and related plant operators operate and monitor
cranes and  other hoisting equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mobile or stationary cranes with
     mobile or fixed jib or boom ;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment for hoisting, lowering
     or raising men and materials on construction site or in
     mine;

(c)  operating and monitoring ski-lifts and similar equipment;

(d)  operating and monitoring machinery used to haul ferry or
     barge with goods, passengers and vehicles across short
     stretches of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machinery to open and close bridge
     for the passage of road and water traffic;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, crane
  Operator, hoist

9152  DOORKEEPERS, WATCHPERSONS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Doorkeepers, watchpersons and related workers undertake
doorkeeping  duties in apartment houses and other buildings,
attend parking places, watch  houses and other properties to
prevent illegal entry or theft and detect fire  or other hazards,
collect tickets, or perform ushering duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  doorkeeping in hotels and helping guests, especially on
     their arrival and departure, with luggage, keys, or
     information about directions, etc. ;

(b)  doorkeeping in apartment houses and other buildings,
     checking the right-of-entry of callers and giving them
     requested information;

(c)  watching houses and other properties to prevent illegal
     entry or theft, fire or other hazards;

(d)  ushering people into courtrooms, sporting places and similar
     
     establishments;

(e)  collecting tickets in cinemas, theatres, circuses and
     related places;

(f)  taking charge of cloakrooms or lavatories in public places;

(g)  attending parking places;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Attendant, cloakroom
  Collector, ticket
  Concierge, hotel desk
  Doorkeeper
  Guard, museum
  Porter, hotel
  Watchman
  Watchwoman
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Bodyguard - 5169
  Concierge, building - 9141
  Game-warden - 5169
  Patrolman, security - 5169
  Patrolwoman security - 5169
  Porter, luggage - 9151

5132  INSTITUTION-BASED PERSONAL CARE WORKERS
 
     Institution-based personal care workers perform simple tasks
to assist  medical, nursing, midwifery and dental professionals
or associate 
professionals in their duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing patients for examination or treatment;

(b)  changing bed-linen and helping patients with their toilet;

(c)  providing hot-water bottles and other comforts for patients;

(d)  serving and collecting food trays and feeding patients
     needing help;

(e)  sterilising surgical and other instruments and equipment;

(f)  assisting dentists by adjusting lights and passing tools and
     materials as requested;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Aid, dental
  Aid, nursing/clinic
  Aid, nursing/hospital
  Ambulance man
  Ambulance woman
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Aid, nursing/home - 5133
  Nurse, associate professional - 3231
  Nurse, professional - 2230

5111  TRAVEL ATTENDANTS AND TRAVEL STEWARDS
 
     Travel attendants and travel stewards render personal
services to ensure  the comfort and safety of passengers, serve
meals and beverages, or plan and  coordinate housekeeping and
social activities on ships.

     Tasks include -

(a)  greeting passengers entering aircraft, conducting them to
     their seats, ensuring that seat-belts are fastened and -no
     smoking" and similar signs are obeyed;

(b)  explaining the use of safety equipment such as life belts
     and oxygen masks;

(c)  distributing reading material, headphones, blankets and
     similar items, and answering passengers' inquiries;

(d)  serving pre-prepared meals as well as beverages;

(e)  selling duty-free goods;

(f)  administering minor medical aid to passengers in need;

(g)  taking appropriate action in case of emergencies or
     accidents;

(h)  taking care of passengers at airports;

(i)  taking care of general needs and comfort of ship's
     passengers, including keeping cabins tidy and serving meals
     in them, on request;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Attendant, airport
  Attendant, flight
  Steward, ship

9152  DOORKEEPERS, WATCHPERSONS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Doorkeepers, watchpersons and related workers undertake
doorkeeping  duties in apartment houses and other buildings,
attend parking places, watch  houses and other properties to
prevent illegal entry or theft and detect fire  or other hazards,
collect tickets, or perform ushering duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  doorkeeping in hotels and helping guests, especially on
     their arrival and departure, with luggage, keys, or
     information about directions, etc. ;

(b)  doorkeeping in apartment houses and other buildings,
     checking the right-of-entry of callers and giving them
     requested information;

(c)  watching houses and other properties to prevent illegal
     entry or theft, fire or other hazards;

(d)  ushering people into courtrooms, sporting places and similar
     
     establishments;

(e)  collecting tickets in cinemas, theatres, circuses and
     related places;

(f)  taking charge of cloakrooms or lavatories in public places;

(g)  attending parking places;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Attendant, cloakroom
  Collector, ticket
  Concierge, hotel desk
  Doorkeeper
  Guard, museum
  Porter, hotel
  Watchman
  Watchwoman
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Bodyguard - 5169
  Concierge, building - 9141
  Game-warden - 5169
  Patrolman, security - 5169
  Patrolwoman security - 5169
  Porter, luggage - 9151

5143  UNDERTAKERS AND EMBALMERS
 
     Undertakers and embalmers perform various tasks in the
disposal of dead  human bodies.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making arrangements for, and conducting, funerals,
     cremations and burials;

(b)  embalming human bodies to retard or arrest the process of
     decay;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Embalmer
  Undertaker

5132  INSTITUTION-BASED PERSONAL CARE WORKERS
 
     Institution-based personal care workers perform simple tasks
to assist  medical, nursing, midwifery and dental professionals
or associate 
professionals in their duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing patients for examination or treatment;

(b)  changing bed-linen and helping patients with their toilet;

(c)  providing hot-water bottles and other comforts for patients;

(d)  serving and collecting food trays and feeding patients
     needing help;

(e)  sterilising surgical and other instruments and equipment;

(f)  assisting dentists by adjusting lights and passing tools and
     materials as requested;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Aid, dental
  Aid, nursing/clinic
  Aid, nursing/hospital
  Ambulance man
  Ambulance woman
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Aid, nursing/home - 5133
  Nurse, associate professional - 3231
  Nurse, professional - 2230

9152  DOORKEEPERS, WATCHPERSONS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Doorkeepers, watchpersons and related workers undertake
doorkeeping  duties in apartment houses and other buildings,
attend parking places, watch  houses and other properties to
prevent illegal entry or theft and detect fire  or other hazards,
collect tickets, or perform ushering duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  doorkeeping in hotels and helping guests, especially on
     their arrival and departure, with luggage, keys, or
     information about directions, etc. ;

(b)  doorkeeping in apartment houses and other buildings,
     checking the right-of-entry of callers and giving them
     requested information;

(c)  watching houses and other properties to prevent illegal
     entry or theft, fire or other hazards;

(d)  ushering people into courtrooms, sporting places and similar
     
     establishments;

(e)  collecting tickets in cinemas, theatres, circuses and
     related places;

(f)  taking charge of cloakrooms or lavatories in public places;

(g)  attending parking places;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Attendant, cloakroom
  Collector, ticket
  Concierge, hotel desk
  Doorkeeper
  Guard, museum
  Porter, hotel
  Watchman
  Watchwoman
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Bodyguard - 5169
  Concierge, building - 9141
  Game-warden - 5169
  Patrolman, security - 5169
  Patrolwoman security - 5169
  Porter, luggage - 9151

9151  MESSENGERS, PACKAGE AND LUGGAGE PORTERS AND DELIVERERS
 

     Messengers, package and luggage porters and deliverers carry
and deliver  messages, packages and other items within an
establishment or between  establishments, to households and
elsewhere, or carry luggage especially at  hotels, stations and
airports.

     Tasks include -

(a)  delivering messages, packages and other items within an
     establishment or between establishments, or elsewhere;

(b)  performing the duties of a post-runner;

(c)  delivering various goods to and from enterprises, shops,
     households and other places;

(d)  carrying and delivering luggage at hotels, stations,
     airports, and elsewhere;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Deliverer, hand/newspapers
  Messenger
  Porter, luggage
  Post-runner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Postman - 4142
  Postwoman - 4142

5133  HOME-BASED PERSONAL CARE WORKERS
 
     Home-based personal care workers attend to various personal
needs and in  general provide personal care for persons in need
of such care at their own  homes because of physical or mental
illness or disability or because of  impairment due to old age.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assisting persons in getting into and out of bed and making
     the appropriate change in dress;

(b)  changing bed-linen and helping persons with their bath and
     toilet;

(c)  serving food - prepared by them or others - and feeding
     persons needing help;

(d)  giving or ensuring that persons take the necessary
     medicaments;

(e)  watching for any sign of deterioration in the person's
     health and informing the relevant medical doctor or social
     services;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Aid, nursing/home
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Aid, nursing/clinic - 5132
  Nurse, associate professional - 3231
  Nurse, professional - 2230
  Social worker, associate professional 3460
  Social worker, professional - 2446

5132  INSTITUTION-BASED PERSONAL CARE WORKERS
 
     Institution-based personal care workers perform simple tasks
to assist  medical, nursing, midwifery and dental professionals
or associate 
professionals in their duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing patients for examination or treatment;

(b)  changing bed-linen and helping patients with their toilet;

(c)  providing hot-water bottles and other comforts for patients;

(d)  serving and collecting food trays and feeding patients
     needing help;

(e)  sterilising surgical and other instruments and equipment;

(f)  assisting dentists by adjusting lights and passing tools and
     materials as requested;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Aid, dental
  Aid, nursing/clinic
  Aid, nursing/hospital
  Ambulance man
  Ambulance woman
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Aid, nursing/home - 5133
  Nurse, associate professional - 3231
  Nurse, professional - 2230

9152  DOORKEEPERS, WATCHPERSONS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Doorkeepers, watchpersons and related workers undertake
doorkeeping  duties in apartment houses and other buildings,
attend parking places, watch  houses and other properties to
prevent illegal entry or theft and detect fire  or other hazards,
collect tickets, or perform ushering duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  doorkeeping in hotels and helping guests, especially on
     their arrival and departure, with luggage, keys, or
     information about directions, etc. ;

(b)  doorkeeping in apartment houses and other buildings,
     checking the right-of-entry of callers and giving them
     requested information;

(c)  watching houses and other properties to prevent illegal
     entry or theft, fire or other hazards;

(d)  ushering people into courtrooms, sporting places and similar
     
     establishments;

(e)  collecting tickets in cinemas, theatres, circuses and
     related places;

(f)  taking charge of cloakrooms or lavatories in public places;

(g)  attending parking places;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Attendant, cloakroom
  Collector, ticket
  Concierge, hotel desk
  Doorkeeper
  Guard, museum
  Porter, hotel
  Watchman
  Watchwoman
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Bodyguard - 5169
  Concierge, building - 9141
  Game-warden - 5169
  Patrolman, security - 5169
  Patrolwoman security - 5169
  Porter, luggage - 9151

5220  SHOP SALESPERSONS AND DEMONSTRATORS
 
     Shop salespersons and demonstrators demonstrate and sell
goods in  wholesale establishments to retailers and large-scale
consumers or to  customers in retail establishments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  moving goods to be sold from storage area to sales area and
     placing them on display;

(b)  ascertaining nature and quality of the product desired by
     the customer;

(c)  assisting customer in making a choice;

(d)  quoting prices, credit terms and discounts;

(e)  packing and arranging delivery of goods, if necessary;

(f)  writing bill, invoice, docket or receipt;

(g)  verifying cashier's receipt, if necessary;

(h)  giving demonstrations of articles on sale in order to inform
     customers about their characteristics and mode of use, as
     well as to stimulate buying interest;

(i)  performing related tasks;

(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Demonstrator
  Salesperson, retail establishment
  Salesperson, wholesale establishment
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Salesperson, kiosk - 5230
  Salesperson, market - 5230
  Salesperson, street stall - 5230

9152  DOORKEEPERS, WATCHPERSONS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Doorkeepers, watchpersons and related workers undertake
doorkeeping  duties in apartment houses and other buildings,
attend parking places, watch  houses and other properties to
prevent illegal entry or theft and detect fire  or other hazards,
collect tickets, or perform ushering duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  doorkeeping in hotels and helping guests, especially on
     their arrival and departure, with luggage, keys, or
     information about directions, etc. ;

(b)  doorkeeping in apartment houses and other buildings,
     checking the right-of-entry of callers and giving them
     requested information;

(c)  watching houses and other properties to prevent illegal
     entry or theft, fire or other hazards;

(d)  ushering people into courtrooms, sporting places and similar
     
     establishments;

(e)  collecting tickets in cinemas, theatres, circuses and
     related places;

(f)  taking charge of cloakrooms or lavatories in public places;

(g)  attending parking places;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Attendant, cloakroom
  Collector, ticket
  Concierge, hotel desk
  Doorkeeper
  Guard, museum
  Porter, hotel
  Watchman
  Watchwoman
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Bodyguard - 5169
  Concierge, building - 9141
  Game-warden - 5169
  Patrolman, security - 5169
  Patrolwoman security - 5169
  Porter, luggage - 9151

5123  WAITERS, WAITRESSES AND BARTENDERS

 
     Waiters, waitresses and bartenders serve food and beverages
in  commercially-operated dining and drinking places, clubs,
institutions and  canteens, on board ships and on passenger
trains.

     Tasks include -

(a)  serving food and beverages;

(b)  advising on the choice of wines and serving them;

(c)  serving alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks at a bar;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Bartender
  Waiter
  Waiter, head
  Waitress
  Waitress, wine

5131  CHILD-CARE WORKERS
 
     Child-care workers take care of employers' children and
oversee their  daily activities, or engage in helping teachers
to look after schoolchildren.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assisting children to bath, dress and feed themselves;

(b)  taking children to and from school or outdoors for
     recreation;

(c)  playing games with children, or entertaining children by
     reading or storytelling;

(d)  maintaining order in children's bedrooms and playrooms;

(e)  taking care of schoolchildren at lunch or other school
     breaks;

(f)  taking care of schoolchildren on excursions, museum visits
     and similar outings;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Governess, children
  Nanny

5220  SHOP SALESPERSONS AND DEMONSTRATORS
 
     Shop salespersons and demonstrators demonstrate and sell
goods in  wholesale establishments to retailers and large-scale
consumers or to  customers in retail establishments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  moving goods to be sold from storage area to sales area and
     placing them on display;

(b)  ascertaining nature and quality of the product desired by
     the customer;

(c)  assisting customer in making a choice;

(d)  quoting prices, credit terms and discounts;

(e)  packing and arranging delivery of goods, if necessary;

(f)  writing bill, invoice, docket or receipt;

(g)  verifying cashier's receipt, if necessary;

(h)  giving demonstrations of articles on sale in order to inform
     customers about their characteristics and mode of use, as
     well as to stimulate buying interest;

(i)  performing related tasks;

(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Demonstrator
  Salesperson, retail establishment
  Salesperson, wholesale establishment
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Salesperson, kiosk - 5230
  Salesperson, market - 5230
  Salesperson, street stall - 5230

5111  TRAVEL ATTENDANTS AND TRAVEL STEWARDS
 
     Travel attendants and travel stewards render personal
services to ensure  the comfort and safety of passengers, serve
meals and beverages, or plan and  coordinate housekeeping and
social activities on ships.

     Tasks include -

(a)  greeting passengers entering aircraft, conducting them to
     their seats, ensuring that seat-belts are fastened and -no
     smoking" and similar signs are obeyed;

(b)  explaining the use of safety equipment such as life belts
     and oxygen masks;

(c)  distributing reading material, headphones, blankets and
     similar items, and answering passengers' inquiries;

(d)  serving pre-prepared meals as well as beverages;

(e)  selling duty-free goods;

(f)  administering minor medical aid to passengers in need;

(g)  taking appropriate action in case of emergencies or
     accidents;

(h)  taking care of passengers at airports;

(i)  taking care of general needs and comfort of ship's
     passengers, including keeping cabins tidy and serving meals
     in them, on request;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Attendant, airport
  Attendant, flight
  Steward, ship

5220  SHOP SALESPERSONS AND DEMONSTRATORS
 
     Shop salespersons and demonstrators demonstrate and sell
goods in  wholesale establishments to retailers and large-scale
consumers or to  customers in retail establishments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  moving goods to be sold from storage area to sales area and
     placing them on display;

(b)  ascertaining nature and quality of the product desired by
     the customer;

(c)  assisting customer in making a choice;

(d)  quoting prices, credit terms and discounts;

(e)  packing and arranging delivery of goods, if necessary;

(f)  writing bill, invoice, docket or receipt;

(g)  verifying cashier's receipt, if necessary;

(h)  giving demonstrations of articles on sale in order to inform
     customers about their characteristics and mode of use, as
     well as to stimulate buying interest;

(i)  performing related tasks;

(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Demonstrator
  Salesperson, retail establishment
  Salesperson, wholesale establishment
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Salesperson, kiosk - 5230
  Salesperson, market - 5230
  Salesperson, street stall - 5230

4131  STOCK CLERKS
 
     Stock clerks maintain records of goods produced and
production materials  received, weighed, issued, dispatched or
put into stock.
     Tasks include -
     
(a)  arranging and controlling receipt and dispatch of goods and
     keeping relevant records;
(b)  maintaining stock records, verifying issue of goods,
     estimating needs and making requisitions of new stocks;
(c)  receiving, storing and issuing tools, spare parts, or
     various equipment and maintaining relevant records;
(d)  weighing goods received, issued, produced, or dispatched and
     maintaining relevant records;
(e)  compiling inventories of furniture and other items received
     for storage;
(f)  performing related tasks; 
(g) supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, freight/dispatching
  Clerk, freight/receiving
  Clerk, stock/records
  Clerk, stock/storeroom
  Clerk, weighing

5143  UNDERTAKERS AND EMBALMERS
 
     Undertakers and embalmers perform various tasks in the
disposal of dead  human bodies.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making arrangements for, and conducting, funerals,
     cremations and burials;

(b)  embalming human bodies to retard or arrest the process of
     decay;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Embalmer
  Undertaker

2421  LAWYERS 
   
     Lawyers give clients legal advice on a wide variety Of
subjects and plead  cases or conduct prosecutions in courts of
justice, or instruct barristers or  advocates to plead in higher
courts of justice.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research on legal theories and principles and
      their relationship to specific laws or court judgements;

(b)   drafting legislation and preparing government regulations
      based on existing laws;

(c)   giving clients - including the Government - legal advice
on
      a wide variety of subjects and undertaking legal business
      on clients' behalf;

(d)   assisting clients to negotiate settlements in matters which
      involve legal disputes;

(e)   examining the circumstances of disputes or reported crimes
      to ascertain facts and their legal implications;

(f)   preparing pleadings or cases for plaintiff or defendant and
      conducting them in court;

(g)   representing clients in the lower court or instructing
      barristers or advocates to plead in higher courts of
      justice;

(h)   accepting briefs and pleading in the higher court;

(i)   acting as prosecutor on behalf of the Government in
      criminal cases;

(j)   drawing up legal documents;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Advocate
  Attorney
  Barrister
  Lawyer
  Prosecutor
  Solicitor

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Clerk, conveyancing - 3432
  Clerk, law - 3432

2429  LEGAL PROFESSIONALS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers legal professionals not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 242, Legal professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who perform
legal functions  other than pleading or prosecuting cases or
presiding over judicial  proceedings.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   giving advice on legal aspects of various personal,
      business and administrative problems;

(b)   drawing up legal documents and contracts;

(c)   arranging property transfers;

(d)   determining, by inquest, the causes of any death not
      obviously due to natural causes;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Coroner
  Jurist, except lawyer or judge
  Notary

3417  APPRAISERS, VALUERS AND AUCTIONEERS
 
     Appraisers, valuers and auctioneers value property and
various goods and  assess losses covered by insurance policies,
or sell objects, properties and  goods by auction.     Tasks include -

(a)   determining the quality of value of raw materials, real
      estate, industria equipment, personal and household
      effects, works of art, gems and other objects offered for
      sale to be insured;

(b)   assessing the extent of damage or loss and liabilities of
      insurance companies and underwriters for losses covered by
      insurance policies;

(c)   selling by auction various kinds of property, cars,
      commodities, livestock, art, jewellery and other objects;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Appraiser
  Assessor, claims
  Assessor, insurance
  Auctioneer
  Inspector, claims
  Valuer

2411  ACCOUNTANTS 
     Accountants advise on accounting matters and perform
accountancy services  or audits.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising on, planning and installing budgetary, accounts
      controlling and other accounting policies and systems;

(b)   preparing and certifying financial statements for
      presentation to management, shareholders and statutory or
      other bodies;

(c)   preparing tax returns, advising on taxation problems and
      contesting disputed claims before tax officials;

(d)   preparing or reporting on profit forecasts and budgets;

(e)   conducting financial investigations in such matters as
      suspected fraud, insolvency and bankruptcy;

(f)   auditing accounts and book-keeping records;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Accountant
  Accountant, chartered
  Auditor

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Assistant, accounting - 3434
  Bookkeeper - 3433
  Clerk, accounts -4121

2451  AUTHORS, JOURNALISTS AND OTHER WRITERS 
     Authors, journalists and other writers write literary works
for  publication or presentation in dramatic form, appraise
merits of artistic  productions, or literary and other works of
art, or write and edit news,  stories and commentaries.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing literary works for publication or
      presentation in dramatic form;

(b)   writing scripts and continuities and preparing programmes
      for stage, film, radio and television productions;

(c)   appraising and writing about merits of literary, musical
      and other works of art, and about artistic performances;

(d)   collecting, reporting and commenting on news and current
      affairs for publication in newspapers and periodicals, or
      for broadcasting by radio or television;

(e)   interviewing politicians and other public figures at press
      conferences and on other occasions, including individual
      interviews recorded for radio or television;

(f)   writing editorials and selecting, revising, arranging and
      editing submitted articles and other material for
      publication in newspapers and periodicals;

(g)   appraising manuscripts submitted for publication in book
      form, making recommendations thereon and editing or
      supervising editing of the material;

(h)   writing advertising copy promoting particular products or
      services;

(i)   selecting, assembling and preparing publicity material
      about business or other organisations for issue through
      press, radio, television and other media;

(j)   designing and writing brochures, handbooks and similar
      technical publications;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Author
  Copywriter, advertising
  Critic
  Editor
  Journalist
  Writer, technical

3225  DENTAL ASSISTANTS 
     Dental assistants carry out advisory, diagnostic, preventive
and curative  dental tasks, more limited in scope and complexity
than those carried out by  Dentists, and they assist Dentists by
preparing and taking care of instruments  and other equipment,
preparing materials and helping patients prepare for  examination
and treatment.

     Tasks include -


(a)   advising communities and individuals on dental hygiene,
      diet  and other preventive dental measures;

(b)   conducting dental examinations to make diagnoses and refer
      more difficult cases to Dentists when needed;

(c)   cleaning teeth, preparing cavities and placing fillings;

(d)   performing certain types of prosthetic work and some
      surgical procedures;

(e)   preparing and taking care of dental instruments and
      equipment;

(f)   preparing dental materials;

(g)   helping patients prepare for examination or treatment;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Assistant, dental
  Assistant, dental/school service
  Hygienist, dental

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Aid, dental - 5132
  Mechanic, dental - 7311

2211  BIOLOGISTS, BOTANISTS, ZOOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Biologists, botanists, zoologists and related professionals
conduct  research, improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and  apply scientific knowledge relating to
biology, microbiology, bacteriology,  cytology, genetics,
zoology, botany and ecology, especially in the fields of 
medicine and agriculture.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   conducting field and laboratory experiments concerning all
      forms of life by identifying and classifying human, animal,
      insect or plant specimens, and studying their origin,
      development, chemical and physical form, structure,
      composition, and life and reproductive processes;

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure, development and characteristics of micro-
      organisms such as bacteria or viruses;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the factors
      involved in the origin, development and transmission of
      hereditary characteristics in human beings, animals or
      plants;

(e)   studying all forms of plant life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(f)   studying all forms of animal life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(g)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure and functions of living cells, and the influence
      of physical and chemical factors upon normal and abnormal
      cells;

(h)   studying inter-relationships of animal and plant life and
      the environmental factors involved, and giving professional
      advice to related disciplines;

(i)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bacteriologist
  Biologist
  Botanist
  Ecologist
  Microbiologist
  Zoologist

9322  HAND PACKERS AND OTHER MANUFACTURING LABOURERS
 

     Hand packers and other manufacturing labourers pack
materials or products  by hand and perform a variety of simple
routine tasks connected with  manufacturing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  packing materials or products by hand in boxes, bags,
     cartons, crates, kegs and other containers for shipment or
     storage;

(b)  moving, lifting, carrying, loading, unloading or washing raw
     materials or products, in various manufacturing  industries
     or repair and maintenance establishments;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, manufacturing
  Packer, hand
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, labelling - 8290
  Machine-operator, packing - 8290

3432  LEGAL AND RELATED BUSINESS ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Legal and related business associate professionals assist
Corporate  managers, General managers, and Legal Professionals,
as well as various  business professionals in connection with
legal matters, including those  related to insurance contracts,
granting of loans and other financial  transactions.     Tasks include -

(a)   examining, or making arrangements for examining, legal
      records and other relevant documents;

(b)   preparing papers summarising legal positions, or setting
      out conditions of loans or insurance;

(c)   advising clients and agents on legal or technical matters
      relating to their particular cases;

(d)   preparing documents relating to transfer of real estate,
      stocks or other matters requiring formal registration;

(e)   checking validity of documents and forwarding them to
      company's share register;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Bailiff
  Clerk, conveyancing
  Clerk, court
  clerk, judge's
  Clerk, law

7412  BAKERS, PASTRY-COOKS AND CONFECTIONERY MAKERS
 

     Bakers, pastry-cooks and confectionery makers make various
kinds of  bread, cakes, and other flour products, as well as
handmade chocolate and  sugar confectionery.

     Tasks include  -

(a)  making bread, cakes, biscuits, pastries, pies and other
     flour products;

(b)  making handmade confectionery from mixtures of sugar,
     chocolate and other ingredients with the help of tools and
     some machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Baker
  Confectioner
  Maker, chocolate
 Pastry-cook
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cook - 5122
  Machine-operator, bakery products 8274
  Machine-operator, bread production 8274
  Machine-operator, chocolate production - 8274

7311  PRECISION-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND REPAIRERS

 

     Precision-instrument makers and repairers make and repair
mechanical  watches, clocks, nautical, meteorological, optical,
surgical, dental,  orthopaedic and other precision instruments
and equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, adjusting and repairing mechanical watches and
     clocks;

(b)  making, adjusting and repairing nautical and meteorological
     instruments and equipment;

(c)  making, adjusting and repairing optical instruments;

(d)  making, adjusting and repairing surgical instruments and
     other medical equipment;

(e)  making and repairing medical, orthopaedic and dental
     appliances and prostheses;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/meteorological
  Maker, instrument/surgical
  Maker, orthopaedic appliance
  Maker, watch
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, watch - 8283
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

8261  FIBRE-PREPARING, SPINNING- AND WINDING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fibre-preparing, spinning- and winding-machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which prepare fibres, and spin,
double, twist and wind  yarn and thread.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which combine textile
     fibres into uniform blends;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which clean and fluff
     textile fibres, transform them into sliver, comb them into
     sliver for first drawing, combine slivers into sliver lap
     or sliver laps into ribbon lap, combine several slivers into
     one attenuated strand of regular quality and weight;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which transform sliver
     into roving;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which spin thread and yarn
     from roving, wind two or more threads onto bobbin, twist two
     or more strands of yarn or thread into single heavier and
     stronger strand, or wind yarn or thread from one package to
     another;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fibre preparing
  Machine-operator, spinning/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, twisting/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, winding/thread and yarn
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Spinner - 7432

2454  CHOREOGRAPHERS AND DANCERS 
      
     Choreographers and dancers conceive and create or perform
dances.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and creating dances, which often convey a story,
      theme, idea or mood, by a pattern of steps, movements and
      gestures;

(b)   performing dances as a soloist, with a partner or as a
      member of a dancing group;

(c)   performing related tasks;

(d)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Choreographer
  Dancer, ballet

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Dancer, night-club - 3473

2111  PHYSICISTS AND ASTRONOMERS 
     Physicists and astronomers conduct research, improve or
develop concepts,  theories and operational methods, or apply
scientific knowledge relating to  physics and astronomy in
industrial, medical, military or other fields.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research, and improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods related to physics and
      astronomy-.

(b)   conducting experiments, tests and analyses in fields such
      as mechanics, thermodynamics, optics, sonics, electricity,
      magnetism, electronics and nuclear physics, or astronomy;

(c)   conducting experiments, tests and analyses of the structure
      and properties of matter in solid state and its behaviour
      under temperature, pressure, stress and other conditions;

(d)   evaluating results of investigations and experiments and
      expressing conclusions, mainly using mathematical
      techniques and models;

(e)   developing or improving industrial, medical, military and
      other practical applications of the principles and
      techniques of physics or astronomy'.

(f)   observing, analysing and interpreting celestial phenomena
      and developing methods and techniques to be used in fields
      such as navigation or space exploration;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Astronomer

  Physicist

3473  STREET, NIGHT-CLUB AND RELATED MUSICIANS, SINGERS AND
DANCERS
 
     Street, night-club and related musicians, singers and
dancers perform  music, or sing or dance on the streets, in
night-clubs, circuses and related  places.     Tasks include -

(a)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist, or
      as a member of a popular music orchestra of circus, or
      other bands;

(b)   singing popular arias as a soloist, or as a member of vocal
      groups in night-clubs, or on the streets;

(c)   performing dances as a soloist, with a partner or as a
      member of dancing groups, in places such as circuses,
      night-clubs or on the streets;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Band leader
  Dancer, night-club
  Musician, night club
  Singer, street
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Conductor, orchestra - 2453
  Dancer, ballet - 2454
  Instrumentalist - 2453
  Singer, choir - 2453

8333  CRANE, HOIST AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Crane, hoist and related plant operators operate and monitor
cranes and  other hoisting equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mobile or stationary cranes with
     mobile or fixed jib or boom ;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment for hoisting, lowering
     or raising men and materials on construction site or in
     mine;

(c)  operating and monitoring ski-lifts and similar equipment;

(d)  operating and monitoring machinery used to haul ferry or
     barge with goods, passengers and vehicles across short
     stretches of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machinery to open and close bridge
     for the passage of road and water traffic;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, crane
  Operator, hoist

5141  HAIRDRESSERS, BARBERS, BEAUTICIANS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Hairdressers, barbers, beauticians and related workers cut
and dress  hair, shave and trim beards, give beauty treatment,
apply cosmetics and  make-up and give other kinds of treatment
to individuals in order to improve their appearance.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting, washing, tinting and waving hair;

(b)  cutting and washing hair and shaving or trimming beards;

(c)  giving scalp treatment;

(d)  fitting wigs according to customers' requirements;

(e)  cleaning and applying creams, lotions and related products
     to face and parts of body;

(f)  giving facial and body massage;

(g)  applying make-up to clients of a beauty parlour;

(h)  applying make-up to actors and other performers;

(i)  cleaning, shaping and polishing finger and toe-nails and
     treating minor ailments of the human foot such as corns,
     calluses or deformed toe-nails;

(j)  attending to clients taking baths and administering
     elementary massage;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Attendant, bath
  Barber
  Beautician
  Chiropodist
  Hairdresser
  Manicurist

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

1315  GENERAL MANAGERS OF RESTAURANTS AND HOTELS 
      General managers of restaurants and hotels head small
restaurant or hotel  businesses and, on their own behalf or on
behalf of the proprietor, plan,  direct and coordinate the
activities of the business, with the assistance of  no more than
one other manager and some non-managerial help.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;

(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 General manager, hotel 

 General manager, restaurant 

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Department manager, production and operations/restaurant
         - 1225 

 Managing director, enterprise/hotel - 1210 

2421  LAWYERS 
   
     Lawyers give clients legal advice on a wide variety Of
subjects and plead  cases or conduct prosecutions in courts of
justice, or instruct barristers or  advocates to plead in higher
courts of justice.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research on legal theories and principles and
      their relationship to specific laws or court judgements;

(b)   drafting legislation and preparing government regulations
      based on existing laws;

(c)   giving clients - including the Government - legal advice
on
      a wide variety of subjects and undertaking legal business
      on clients' behalf;

(d)   assisting clients to negotiate settlements in matters which
      involve legal disputes;

(e)   examining the circumstances of disputes or reported crimes
      to ascertain facts and their legal implications;

(f)   preparing pleadings or cases for plaintiff or defendant and
      conducting them in court;

(g)   representing clients in the lower court or instructing
      barristers or advocates to plead in higher courts of
      justice;

(h)   accepting briefs and pleading in the higher court;

(i)   acting as prosecutor on behalf of the Government in
      criminal cases;

(j)   drawing up legal documents;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Advocate
  Attorney
  Barrister
  Lawyer
  Prosecutor
  Solicitor

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Clerk, conveyancing - 3432
  Clerk, law - 3432

5123  WAITERS, WAITRESSES AND BARTENDERS

 
     Waiters, waitresses and bartenders serve food and beverages
in  commercially-operated dining and drinking places, clubs,
institutions and  canteens, on board ships and on passenger
trains.

     Tasks include -

(a)  serving food and beverages;

(b)  advising on the choice of wines and serving them;

(c)  serving alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks at a bar;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Bartender
  Waiter
  Waiter, head
  Waitress
  Waitress, wine

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

9213  FISHERY, HUNTING AND TRAPPING LABOURERS
 

     Fishery, hunting and trapping labourers, by performing a
variety of  simple tasks, help with work connected with fish and
seafood cultivation, or  with hunting and trapping.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cleaning the sea-bed and feeding fish and mollusca that are
     being cultivated;

(b)  gathering seaweed, sea mosses, clams and other mollusca;

(c)  digging pits and holes, setting traps, keeping watch and
     performing other simple tasks connected with hunting and
     trapping;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, fishery
  Labourer, hunting
  Labourer, trapping
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Hunter - 6154
  Trapper, fur - 6154
  Fishery  worker, skilled/pisciculture - 6151

7213  SHEET-METAL WORKERS
 

     Sheet-metal workers make, install and repair articles and
parts of  articles of sheet metal such as sheet steel, copper,
tin, brass, aluminium,  zinc or galvanised iron.

     Tasks include -

(a)  marking sheet metal for cutting and shaping;

(b)  making and repairing household utensils and other articles
     in tin, copper and light alloys, or ornamental articles and
     fittings;

(c)  making and repairing boilers, tanks, vats and similar
     containers;

(d)  installing and repairing sheet-metal parts of vehicles and
     aircraft;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Boiler smith
  Coppersmith
  Sheet-metal worker
  Tinsmith

5141  HAIRDRESSERS, BARBERS, BEAUTICIANS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Hairdressers, barbers, beauticians and related workers cut
and dress  hair, shave and trim beards, give beauty treatment,
apply cosmetics and  make-up and give other kinds of treatment
to individuals in order to improve their appearance.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting, washing, tinting and waving hair;

(b)  cutting and washing hair and shaving or trimming beards;

(c)  giving scalp treatment;

(d)  fitting wigs according to customers' requirements;

(e)  cleaning and applying creams, lotions and related products
     to face and parts of body;

(f)  giving facial and body massage;

(g)  applying make-up to clients of a beauty parlour;

(h)  applying make-up to actors and other performers;

(i)  cleaning, shaping and polishing finger and toe-nails and
     treating minor ailments of the human foot such as corns,
     calluses or deformed toe-nails;

(j)  attending to clients taking baths and administering
     elementary massage;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Attendant, bath
  Barber
  Beautician
  Chiropodist
  Hairdresser
  Manicurist

6123  APIARISTS AND SERICULTURISTS
 
     Apiarists and sericulturists plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed, raise and tend insects such as
honey bees, silkworms or other  species, for sale or delivery of
honey, beeswax, silk cocoons, etc., on a  regular basis to
wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of insect products to be
     produced-,

(b)  purchasing insects, growing or purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending insects and collecting their
     products;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  maintaining buildings, machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Apiarist
  Apiary worker, skilled
  Sericulturist
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

9151  MESSENGERS, PACKAGE AND LUGGAGE PORTERS AND DELIVERERS
 

     Messengers, package and luggage porters and deliverers carry
and deliver  messages, packages and other items within an
establishment or between  establishments, to households and
elsewhere, or carry luggage especially at  hotels, stations and
airports.

     Tasks include -

(a)  delivering messages, packages and other items within an
     establishment or between establishments, or elsewhere;

(b)  performing the duties of a post-runner;

(c)  delivering various goods to and from enterprises, shops,
     households and other places;

(d)  carrying and delivering luggage at hotels, stations,
     airports, and elsewhere;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Deliverer, hand/newspapers
  Messenger
  Porter, luggage
  Post-runner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Postman - 4142
  Postwoman - 4142

7322  GLASS-MAKERS, CUTTERS, GRINDERS AND FINISHERS
 

     Glass-makers, cutters, grinders and finishers blow, mould,
press and roll  shapes from molten glass and cut, grind and
polish glass.

     Tasks include -

(a)  shaping molten glass by means of blowpipe, hand moulding,
     heating and bending;

(b)  heating, moulding and pressing optical glass to make lens
     blanks;

(c)  grinding and polishing lens blanks;

(d)  grinding and bevelling edges of glass;

(e)  cutting sheet glass with hand tools and sawing prisms and
     other shapes from optical glass blocks;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blower, glass
  Cutter, glass
  Finisher, glass
  Grinder, glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Furnace-operator, glass production - 8131

7214  STRUCTURAL-METAL PREPARERS AND ERECTORS
 

     Structural-metal preparers and erectors shape, assemble and
erect heavy  metal girders and plates to form structures and
frameworks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  marking metal members as a guide when drilling, cutting, and
     shaping them for use in buildings, ships and other
     structures;

(b)  drilling, cutting and shaping structural steel in a
     workshop;

(c)  erecting steel members for buildings, bridges and other
     constructions;

(d)  assembling and erecting the framework and other metal parts
     of ships' structures;

(e)  shaping and fitting structural-steel plates of ships under
     construction or repair;

(f)  riveting structural-metal members by hand, machine or
     pneumatic riveter;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Erector, structural metal
  Preparer, structural metal
  Riveter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, rivet production 8211

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

9331  HAND OR PEDAL VEHICLE DRIVERS
 

     Hand or pedal vehicle drivers propel cycles and similar
vehicles to  transport passengers or goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  loading or unloading goods, or assisting passengers in
     getting on or off a vehicle;

(b)  moving vehicle in the desired direction with due regard to
     other traffic and traffic regulations;

(c)  making minor repairs and keeping vehicle in good order;

(d)  collecting fares or charges;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, pedal vehicle
  Driver, rickshaw
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Rider, motor cycle - 8321

7322  GLASS-MAKERS, CUTTERS, GRINDERS AND FINISHERS
 

     Glass-makers, cutters, grinders and finishers blow, mould,
press and roll  shapes from molten glass and cut, grind and
polish glass.

     Tasks include -

(a)  shaping molten glass by means of blowpipe, hand moulding,
     heating and bending;

(b)  heating, moulding and pressing optical glass to make lens
     blanks;

(c)  grinding and polishing lens blanks;

(d)  grinding and bevelling edges of glass;

(e)  cutting sheet glass with hand tools and sawing prisms and
     other shapes from optical glass blocks;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blower, glass
  Cutter, glass
  Finisher, glass
  Grinder, glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Furnace-operator, glass production - 8131

9331  HAND OR PEDAL VEHICLE DRIVERS
 

     Hand or pedal vehicle drivers propel cycles and similar
vehicles to  transport passengers or goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  loading or unloading goods, or assisting passengers in
     getting on or off a vehicle;

(b)  moving vehicle in the desired direction with due regard to
     other traffic and traffic regulations;

(c)  making minor repairs and keeping vehicle in good order;

(d)  collecting fares or charges;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, pedal vehicle
  Driver, rickshaw
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Rider, motor cycle - 8321

7129  BUILDING FRAME AND RELATED TRADES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers building frame and related trades
workers not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 712, Building
frame and related trades  workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who perform
miscellaneous  construction and building maintenance tasks.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  performing miscellaneous construction and building
     maintenance work on structures such as office buildings,
     apartment houses, factories and similar establishments in
     good repair;

(b)  performing construction, maintenance or repair work at
     unusual heights;

(c)  erecting temporary metal or wooden scaffolding on building
     sites;

(d)  demolishing buildings and other structures;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Demolition worker
  Housebuilder, non-traditional materials
  Scaffolder
  Steeplejack
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Labourer, construction/buildings 9313
  Labourer, demolition - 9313

9120  SHOE CLEANING AND OTHER STREET SERVICES ELEMENTARY OCCUPATIONS
 

     Shoe cleaning and other street services elementary
occupations usually  include cleaning shoes, washing car windows,
running errands and providing  other on-the-spot street services.
(a)  obtaining the materials necessary to perform cleaning
     services;

(b)  cleaning and polishing shoes;

(c)  cleaning and polishing car windows;

(d)  running errands;

(e)  receiving immediate payment;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Errand boy
  Shoe-polisher
  Washer, hand/street (car windows)

2212  PHARMACOLOGISTS, PATHOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Pharmacologists, pathologists and related professionals
conduct research,  improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and apply  scientific knowledge relating to
anatomy, biochemistry, biophysics,  physiology, pathology, or
pharmacology, in such fields as medicine,  agriculture or
industry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   studying and conducting experiments 

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the chemical
      composition and processes of living organisms;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the life
      processes and functions of human, animal or plant organs,
      tissues, cells, glands and systems under normal and
      abnormal or exceptional conditions;

(e)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the nature,
      causes and development of human, animal or plant diseases
      and disorders;

(f)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the effects
      of drugs and other substances on the tissues, organs and
      physiological processes of human beings and animals, and
      improving existing or developing new drugs;

(g)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Anatomist
  Biochemist
  Biophysicist
  Pathologist
  Pharmacologist
  Physiologist

2451  AUTHORS, JOURNALISTS AND OTHER WRITERS 
     Authors, journalists and other writers write literary works
for  publication or presentation in dramatic form, appraise
merits of artistic  productions, or literary and other works of
art, or write and edit news,  stories and commentaries.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing literary works for publication or
      presentation in dramatic form;

(b)   writing scripts and continuities and preparing programmes
      for stage, film, radio and television productions;

(c)   appraising and writing about merits of literary, musical
      and other works of art, and about artistic performances;

(d)   collecting, reporting and commenting on news and current
      affairs for publication in newspapers and periodicals, or
      for broadcasting by radio or television;

(e)   interviewing politicians and other public figures at press
      conferences and on other occasions, including individual
      interviews recorded for radio or television;

(f)   writing editorials and selecting, revising, arranging and
      editing submitted articles and other material for
      publication in newspapers and periodicals;

(g)   appraising manuscripts submitted for publication in book
      form, making recommendations thereon and editing or
      supervising editing of the material;

(h)   writing advertising copy promoting particular products or
      services;

(i)   selecting, assembling and preparing publicity material
      about business or other organisations for issue through
      press, radio, television and other media;

(j)   designing and writing brochures, handbooks and similar
      technical publications;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Author
  Copywriter, advertising
  Critic
  Editor
  Journalist
  Writer, technical

2211  BIOLOGISTS, BOTANISTS, ZOOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Biologists, botanists, zoologists and related professionals
conduct  research, improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and  apply scientific knowledge relating to
biology, microbiology, bacteriology,  cytology, genetics,
zoology, botany and ecology, especially in the fields of 
medicine and agriculture.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   conducting field and laboratory experiments concerning all
      forms of life by identifying and classifying human, animal,
      insect or plant specimens, and studying their origin,
      development, chemical and physical form, structure,
      composition, and life and reproductive processes;

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure, development and characteristics of micro-
      organisms such as bacteria or viruses;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the factors
      involved in the origin, development and transmission of
      hereditary characteristics in human beings, animals or
      plants;

(e)   studying all forms of plant life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(f)   studying all forms of animal life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(g)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure and functions of living cells, and the influence
      of physical and chemical factors upon normal and abnormal
      cells;

(h)   studying inter-relationships of animal and plant life and
      the environmental factors involved, and giving professional
      advice to related disciplines;

(i)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bacteriologist
  Biologist
  Botanist
  Ecologist
  Microbiologist
  Zoologist

2122  STATISTICIANS 
     Statisticians conduct research, improve or develop
mathematical and other  aspects of statistical concepts, theories
and operational methods and  techniques, and advise on or engage
in their practical application,in such  fields as business or
medicine as well as. in other areas of natural, social  or life
sciences.

     Tasks include:

(a)   studying, improving and developing statistical theories and
        methodologies-.

(b)   planning and organising surveys and other statistical
      collections, and designing questionnaires;

(c)   evaluating, processing, analysing, and interpreting
      statistical data and preparing them for publication;

(d)   advising on or applying various data collection methods and
      statistical methods and techniques, and determining
      reliability of findings, especially in such fields as
      business or medicine as well as in other areas of natural,
      social or life sciences:.

(e)   preparing scientific papers and reports-.

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Demographer
  Statistician
  Statistician, applied statistics
  Statistician, mathematical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Assistant, statistical: 3434
  Clerk, statistical: 4122

2212  PHARMACOLOGISTS, PATHOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Pharmacologists, pathologists and related professionals
conduct research,  improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and apply  scientific knowledge relating to
anatomy, biochemistry, biophysics,  physiology, pathology, or
pharmacology, in such fields as medicine,  agriculture or
industry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   studying and conducting experiments 

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the chemical
      composition and processes of living organisms;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the life
      processes and functions of human, animal or plant organs,
      tissues, cells, glands and systems under normal and
      abnormal or exceptional conditions;

(e)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the nature,
      causes and development of human, animal or plant diseases
      and disorders;

(f)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the effects
      of drugs and other substances on the tissues, organs and
      physiological processes of human beings and animals, and
      improving existing or developing new drugs;

(g)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Anatomist
  Biochemist
  Biophysicist
  Pathologist
  Pharmacologist
  Physiologist

2460  RELIGIOUS PROFESSIONALS 
      
     Religious professionals function as perpetrators of the
sacred  traditions, practices and beliefs and celebrate or
administer at the rituals  of initiation, preside over ritual
reenactments of creative, redemptive or  salvatory events, and
offer sacrifices to the gods or to one God.

     Tasks include -

(a)   perpetuating sacred traditions, practices and beliefs;

(d)   conducting religious services, rites and ceremonies;

(c)   undertaking various administrative and social duties,
      including a ending committees and meetings of religious
      organisations;

(d)   providing spiritual and moral guidance in accordance with
      the religion professed;

(e)   propagating religious doctrines in own country or abroad;

(f)   preparing religious sermons and preachings;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bonze
  Imam
  Minister, religion
  Monk, professional
  Nun, professional
  Poojari
  Priest
  Rabbi

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Monk, associate professional - 3480
  Nun, associate professional - 3480
  Preacher, lay - 3480

7221  BLACKSMITHS, HAMMER-SMITHS AND FORGING-PRESS WORKERS
 

     Blacksmiths, hammer-smiths and forging-press workers draw
wire, hammer  and forge bars, rods, ingots and plates of iron,
steel or other metals to make  and repair various kinds of tools,
metal articles, pieces of equipment,  agricultural and related
implements.

     Tasks include -

(a)  heating metal in forge furnace and manufacturing and
     repairing articles by drawing, bending, cutting, hammering
     metal on an anvil, punching, shearing, joining and hardening
     or tempering;

(b)  shaping heated metal into forgings on power hammer equipped
     with open dies;

(c)  operating closed-die drop hammer to forge metal articles;

(d)  operating a power-press machine equipped with closed dies
to
     forge metal articles;

(e)  drawing wire;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blacksmith
  Drop-hammer worker
  Forging-press worker
  Hammer-smith
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, casting/metal - 8122
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

7112  SHOTFIRERS AND BLASTERS
 

     Shotfirers and blasters determine location and force of
explosions  required, charge and detonate explosives to fragment
or dislodge coal, ores,  rock or other solid minerals in mines
or quarries, or to clear building sites  and similar places.

     Tasks include -

(a)  ensuring observance of workplace safety procedures and
     regulations;

(b)  determining location of explosions required and giving
     instructions on holes to be drilled;

(c)  deciding on force required and placing correct quantity of
     explosives, and preparing blasting site;

(d)  firing blasting-charge in mines or quarries;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blaster
  Shotfirer

7431  FIBRE PREPARERS
 

     Fibre preparers prepare wool, cotton,flax, jute, hemp and
other natural  textile fibres for spinning and winding.

     Tasks include -

(a)  grading and classifying natural textile fibres;

(b)  washing wool fibres;

(c)  cleaning and fluffing textile fibres;

(d)  forming fibres into sliver, combing them, combining sliver
     into sliver laps or forming sliver into rove;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Comber, fibre/textiles
  Drawer, fibre/textiles
  Rover, fibre/textiles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator combing/textile fibres - 8261

7416  TOBACCO PREPARERS AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Tobacco preparers and tobacco products makers prepare
tobacco leaves and  make various tobacco products.

     Tasks  include -

(a)  grading cured tobacco leaves by type, quality and locality
     where grown;

(b)  mixing tobacco leaves according to formula to obtain a blend
     of distinct flavour;

(c)  tending vacuum container which moistens tobacco for further
     processing;

(d)  removing midribs and stalks from tobacco leaves and
     shredding tobacco;

(e)  making cigars, cigarettes, snuff and other tobacco products
     by hand or with simple machines;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, tobacco
  Maker, cigar
  Maker, cigarette
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, cigar production - 8279
  Machine-operator, cigarette production - 8279

8269  TEXTILE-, FUR- AND LEATHER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers textile-, fur- and leather-products
machine  operators not classified elsewhere in Minor group 826,
Textile-, fur- and  leather-products machine operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machines which make hats or
miscellaneous articles  such as braids or other trimmings.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which form and make hats
     out of textiles, fur or leather;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which make miscellaneous
     articles such as braids or other trimmings;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, braid production
  Machine-operator, hat making
  Machine-operator, pattern making/textiles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Milliner - 7433
  Pattern-maker, garment - 7435

7322  GLASS-MAKERS, CUTTERS, GRINDERS AND FINISHERS
 

     Glass-makers, cutters, grinders and finishers blow, mould,
press and roll  shapes from molten glass and cut, grind and
polish glass.

     Tasks include -

(a)  shaping molten glass by means of blowpipe, hand moulding,
     heating and bending;

(b)  heating, moulding and pressing optical glass to make lens
     blanks;

(c)  grinding and polishing lens blanks;

(d)  grinding and bevelling edges of glass;

(e)  cutting sheet glass with hand tools and sawing prisms and
     other shapes from optical glass blocks;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blower, glass
  Cutter, glass
  Finisher, glass
  Grinder, glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Furnace-operator, glass production - 8131

7224  METAL WHEEL-GRINDERS, POLISHERS AND TOOL SHARPENERS
 

     Metal wheel-grinders, polishers and tool sharpeners grind
and polish  metal surfaces and sharpen tools.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating fixed or portable buffing and polishing machines;

(b)  sharpening cutting tools and instruments using grinding
     wheel or mechanically operated grinding machines;

(c)  repairing, adjusting and sharpening saw blades and metal
     teeth of cylinders in textile carding machines;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Finisher, metal
  Grinder, tool
  Polisher, metal
  Sharpener, knife
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal - 8223
  Machine-operator polishing/metal -8223

7124  CARPENTERS AND JOINERS
 

     Carpenters and joiners cut, shape, assemble, erect, maintain
and repair various types of wooden structures and fittings.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, altering and repairing structural and other woodwork
     at a work-bench and on a construction site;

(b)  constructing, erecting and installing heavy-framed wooden
     structures on building sites;

(c)  fitting, assembling and altering internal and external
     fixtures of buildings, such as walls, doors, door and window
     frames, facings and panelling;

(d)  making, repairing and fitting scenic equipment for
     theatrical 
     performances, motion picture or television productions;

(e)  constructing, assembling, altering and repairing wooden
     fixtures and fittings in train coaches, aircraft, ships,
     boats, floats, pontoons and other vehicles;

(f)  cutting, shaping, fitting and assembling wooden parts,
     mainly at a work-bench;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carpenter
  Joiner
  Shipwright, wood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cabinet-maker - 7422
  Wheel-wright - 7422

8340  SHIPS' DECK CREWS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Ship's deck crews and related workers carry out deck duties
on board ship  and similar duties on board other water-borne
craft.

     Tasks include -

(a)  standing look-out watches at sea and when entering or
     leaving harbour or other narrow waters'.
(b)  steering ship according to instructions;

(c)  handling mooring lines on board;

(d)  maintaining and, in some cases, operating ship's equipment,
     cargo gear, rigging, life-saving and fire-fighting
     appliances;

(e)  performing deck and hull cleaning, scraping, painting and
     other maintenance duties as required;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Boatswain
  Sailor
  Seaman, able
  Seawoman, able

5169  PROTECTIVE SERVICES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers protective services workers not
classified  elsewhere in Minor group 516, Protective services
workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who patrol
buildings and  areas to prevent illegal entry, theft, violence
and other unlawful acts, and  who, if necessary, use force to
prevent such acts and apprehend perpetrators,  as well as those
who act as bodyguards, life-guards or game-wardens.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  patrolling buildings and areas to prevent theft, violence,
     infractions of rules or other irregularities;

(b)  if necessary, exercising the right to use force and to 
     apprehend.perpetrators;

(c)  performing the duties of a bodyguard;

(d)  patrolling beaches and swimming pools to prevent accidents
     and to rescue bathers from drowning;

(e)  patrolling natural reserves, game parks, forest areas and
     enclosures to prevent theft and killing of game;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Bodyguard
  Game-warden
  Life-guard
  Patrolman, security
  Patrolwoman, security
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Doorkeeper - 91 52
  Guard, museum - 9152
  Watchman - 9152
  Watchwoman - 9152

7213  SHEET-METAL WORKERS
 

     Sheet-metal workers make, install and repair articles and
parts of  articles of sheet metal such as sheet steel, copper,
tin, brass, aluminium,  zinc or galvanised iron.

     Tasks include -

(a)  marking sheet metal for cutting and shaping;

(b)  making and repairing household utensils and other articles
     in tin, copper and light alloys, or ornamental articles and
     fittings;

(c)  making and repairing boilers, tanks, vats and similar
     containers;

(d)  installing and repairing sheet-metal parts of vehicles and
     aircraft;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Boiler smith
  Coppersmith
  Sheet-metal worker
  Tinsmith

7111  MINERS AND QUARRY WORKERS
 

     Miners and quarry workers extract solid minerals from
underground or  surface mines or quarries.

     Tasks include -

(a)  extracting coal, ores and other solid minerals from
     underground or surface mines;

(b)  extracting granite, limestone, slate, flint or other kinds
     of rocks from quarries;

(c)  setting and operating machines which cut channels or drill
     blasting holes into the open face of mines or quarries;

(d)  cutting, fitting and installing wood or steel props, pillars
     and arches to support walls and roof of underground
     workings;

(e)  collecting samples of coal or ore for laboratory analysis;

(f)  extracting chalk, clay, gravel or sand from open pits;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Miner
  Quarrier
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, drilling/mine - 8111
  Machine-operator, mining/continuous - 8111

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

2460  RELIGIOUS PROFESSIONALS 
      
     Religious professionals function as perpetrators of the
sacred  traditions, practices and beliefs and celebrate or
administer at the rituals  of initiation, preside over ritual
reenactments of creative, redemptive or  salvatory events, and
offer sacrifices to the gods or to one God.

     Tasks include -

(a)   perpetuating sacred traditions, practices and beliefs;

(d)   conducting religious services, rites and ceremonies;

(c)   undertaking various administrative and social duties,
      including a ending committees and meetings of religious
      organisations;

(d)   providing spiritual and moral guidance in accordance with
      the religion professed;

(e)   propagating religious doctrines in own country or abroad;

(f)   preparing religious sermons and preachings;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bonze
  Imam
  Minister, religion
  Monk, professional
  Nun, professional
  Poojari
  Priest
  Rabbi

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Monk, associate professional - 3480
  Nun, associate professional - 3480
  Preacher, lay - 3480

7345  BOOKBINDERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Bookbinders and related workers bind covers to books and
perform  book-finishing operations.

     Tasks include -

(a)  binding books and periodicals by hand;

(b)  setting and operating bookbinding machines;

(c)  embossing designs or titles on books by hand or machine;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Bookbinder
  Embosser, book
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, bookbinding 8252

3433  BOOKKEEPERS
 
     Bookkeepers maintain complete records of financial
transactions of an  undertaking and verify accuracy of documents
and records relating to such  transactions.     Tasks include -

(a)   maintaining complete records of all financial transactions
      of an undertaking according to general bookkeeping
      principles, with guidance from Accountants;

(b)   verifying accuracy of documents and records relating to
      payments, receipts and other financial transactions;

(c)   preparing financial statements and reports for specified
      periods;

(d)   applying knowledge of bookkeeping principles and practices
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Bookkeeper
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Accountant - 2411
  Clerk, bookkeeping - 4121

4213  BOOKMAKERS AND CROUPIERS
 
     Bookmakers and croupiers determine odds and receive and pay
off bets on  results of sporting or other events, or conduct
games of chance in gambling  establishments.
     Tasks include -

(a)  determining risks to decide odds and to hedge or refuse
     bets;
(b)  preparing and issuing lists of approximate odds;
(c)  distributing cards, rolling dice or spinning a roulette
     wheel:
(d)  explaining and interpreting operating rules of a gambling
     establishment;
(e)  announcing winning numbers, paying winners and collecting
     payments from losers;
(f)  performing related tasks;
(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Bookmaker
  Croupier

7322  GLASS-MAKERS, CUTTERS, GRINDERS AND FINISHERS
 

     Glass-makers, cutters, grinders and finishers blow, mould,
press and roll  shapes from molten glass and cut, grind and
polish glass.

     Tasks include -

(a)  shaping molten glass by means of blowpipe, hand moulding,
     heating and bending;

(b)  heating, moulding and pressing optical glass to make lens
     blanks;

(c)  grinding and polishing lens blanks;

(d)  grinding and bevelling edges of glass;

(e)  cutting sheet glass with hand tools and sawing prisms and
     other shapes from optical glass blocks;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blower, glass
  Cutter, glass
  Finisher, glass
  Grinder, glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Furnace-operator, glass production - 8131

7223    MACHINE-TOOL SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool setters and setter-operators set for operators,
or set and  operate, various machine tools working to fine
tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting one or more types of machine tools for operators to
     produce metal articles in standardised series;

(b)  setting and operating a variety of machine tools;

(c)  setting and operating particular types of metalworking
     machines, such as lathe, milling, planing, boring, drilling,
     grinding or honing machines, including multipurpose
     numerically controlled metalworking machines;

(d)  performing similar tasks when machining plastics and other
     metal substitutes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Setter, machine tool
  Setter-operator, drilling machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, grinding machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, lathe/metalworking
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, drilling/metal - 8211
  Machine-operator, grinding/metal 8211
  Machine-operator, machine tool - 8211

7423  WOODWORKING-MACHINE SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Woodworking-machine setters and setter-operators set or set
and operate  woodworking machines, such as precision sawing,
shaping, planing, boring, turning and woodcarving machines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting and adjusting various kinds of machines for
     operation by others;

(b)  setting and operating one or several types of woodworking
     machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Sawyer, precision woodworking
  Setter, woodworking machine
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine
  Turner, wood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator woodworking - 8240
  Setter-operator, metalworking machine - 7223

2211  BIOLOGISTS, BOTANISTS, ZOOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Biologists, botanists, zoologists and related professionals
conduct  research, improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and  apply scientific knowledge relating to
biology, microbiology, bacteriology,  cytology, genetics,
zoology, botany and ecology, especially in the fields of 
medicine and agriculture.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   conducting field and laboratory experiments concerning all
      forms of life by identifying and classifying human, animal,
      insect or plant specimens, and studying their origin,
      development, chemical and physical form, structure,
      composition, and life and reproductive processes;

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure, development and characteristics of micro-
      organisms such as bacteria or viruses;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the factors
      involved in the origin, development and transmission of
      hereditary characteristics in human beings, animals or
      plants;

(e)   studying all forms of plant life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(f)   studying all forms of animal life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(g)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure and functions of living cells, and the influence
      of physical and chemical factors upon normal and abnormal
      cells;

(h)   studying inter-relationships of animal and plant life and
      the environmental factors involved, and giving professional
      advice to related disciplines;

(i)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bacteriologist
  Biologist
  Botanist
  Ecologist
  Microbiologist
  Zoologist

9321  ASSEMBLING LABOURERS
 

     Assembling labourers undertake product-sorting or simple
hand-assembling  of components.

     Tasks include -

(a)  carrying out manual sorting of products or components;

(b)  carrying out simple assembling of components;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Bottle sorter
  Labourer, assembling
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, electrical equipment - 8282
  Assembler, electronic equipment - 8283
  Assembler, leather products - 8286
  Assembler, rubber products - 8284
  Assembler, vehicle - 8281
  Assembler, wood products - 8285

9322  HAND PACKERS AND OTHER MANUFACTURING LABOURERS
 

     Hand packers and other manufacturing labourers pack
materials or products  by hand and perform a variety of simple
routine tasks connected with  manufacturing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  packing materials or products by hand in boxes, bags,
     cartons, crates, kegs and other containers for shipment or
     storage;

(b)  moving, lifting, carrying, loading, unloading or washing raw
     materials or products, in various manufacturing  industries
     or repair and maintenance establishments;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, manufacturing
  Packer, hand
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, labelling - 8290
  Machine-operator, packing - 8290

3475  ATHLETES, SPORTSPERSONS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Athletes, sportspersons and related associate professionals
participate  in competitive sporting events, conduct sports
training, compile rules  concerning sporting events, and control
the progress of these events.     Tasks include -

(a)   participating in competitive sporting events;

(b)   conducting sports training to develop ability in and
      knowledge of the sport;

(c)   compiling rules concerning the conduct of sporting
      competitions, and controlling the progress of these events;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Athlete
  Boxer
  Coach, sports
  Official, sports
  Wrestler

7129  BUILDING FRAME AND RELATED TRADES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers building frame and related trades
workers not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 712, Building
frame and related trades  workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who perform
miscellaneous  construction and building maintenance tasks.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  performing miscellaneous construction and building
     maintenance work on structures such as office buildings,
     apartment houses, factories and similar establishments in
     good repair;

(b)  performing construction, maintenance or repair work at
     unusual heights;

(c)  erecting temporary metal or wooden scaffolding on building
     sites;

(d)  demolishing buildings and other structures;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Demolition worker
  Housebuilder, non-traditional materials
  Scaffolder
  Steeplejack
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Labourer, construction/buildings 9313
  Labourer, demolition - 9313

8312  RAILWAY BRAKERS, SIGNALLERS AND SHUNTERS
 

     Railway brakers, signallers and shunters take charge of and
safeguard  railway freight trains during runs, control the
movement of railway traffic by  operating signals, switch rolling
stock and make up trains in railway yards,  make up trains for
hauling in mines and control their movement.

     Tasks include -

(a)  taking charge of and safeguarding freight train during run;

(b)  controlling flow of railway traffic over section of line by
     operating signals and switches from control panel or signal
     box;

(c)  switching and coupling rolling stock in railway yards and
     sidings in accordance with orders about loading, unloading
     and make-up of trains;

(d)  making up trains for hauling by locomotive or cable and
     directing their movement along haulageways in a mine or
     quarry;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Braker, railway
  Shunter, railway
  Signaller, railway

7212    WELDERS AND FLAMECUTTERS
 

     Welders and flame cutters weld and cut metal parts using gas
flame, or an  electric arc and other sources of heat to melt and
cut, or to melt and fuse  metal.

     Tasks include -

(a)  welding metal parts using gas flame, or an electric arc,
     thermite compound or other methods;

(b)  operating resistance-welding machines;

(c)  using blowtorch to make and repair lead linings, pipes,
     floors and other lead fixtures;

(d)  brazing metal parts together;

(e)  cutting metal pieces using gas flame or an electric arc;

(f)  joining metal parts by hand soldering;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Brazier
  Flamecutter
  Welder

6129  MARKET-ORIENTED ANIMAL PRODUCERS AND RELATED WORKERS NOT
ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED

 
     This unit group covers market-oriented animal producers and
related  workers not classified elsewhere in Minor group 612,
Market-oriented animal  producers and related workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  breeding, raising and tending wild mammals, game
birds and other birds,  snails, non-domesticated fur-giving
animals, snakes and other reptiles, as well  as various insects
and animals used for laboratory tests, for sale or delivery  on
a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations,
zoos and  circuses, or at markets. Here should also be classified
those who look after  or train animals in animal reserves,
stables, zoos, circuses, research  organisations, animal homes,
and similar institutions.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  buying or setting up necessary buildings, open or sheltered
     space, equipment, etc., and maintaining them;

(b)  determining kinds and amounts of animals to be raised;

(c)  purchasing animals, growing or purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(d)  breeding, raising, feeding and tending animals;

(e)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market

(f)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(g)  protecting animals, especially in animal reserves;

(h)  training animals for racing, circus performances and the
     like;

(i)  delivering or marketing products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, bird
  Breeder, game bird
  Breeder, laboratory animal/mice
  Breeder, lion
  Breeder, snail
  Farmer, fur/non-domesticated animals
  Keeper, animal reserve
  Keeper, zoo
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Game-warden - 5169

6121  DAIRY AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS
 
     Dairy and livestock producers plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed,  raise and tend livestock such
as cattle, sheep, pigs, goats,  horses, dogs or cats to be used
as working, sporting, or pet animals, as well  as for meat, milk,
hair, hides and other products, for sale or delivery on a 
regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of livestock and livestock
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing animals, producing and purchasing fodder and
     other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in grazing land, buildings, equipment
     and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending livestock;

(e)  milking animals and shearing sheep;

(f)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market;

(g)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(h)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(i)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, cat
  Breeder, dog
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock
  Farmer, dairy
  Farmer, horse raising
  Farmer, livestock
  Farmer, sheep
  Farmer, sheep/astrakhan
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6129  MARKET-ORIENTED ANIMAL PRODUCERS AND RELATED WORKERS NOT
ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED

 
     This unit group covers market-oriented animal producers and
related  workers not classified elsewhere in Minor group 612,
Market-oriented animal  producers and related workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  breeding, raising and tending wild mammals, game
birds and other birds,  snails, non-domesticated fur-giving
animals, snakes and other reptiles, as well  as various insects
and animals used for laboratory tests, for sale or delivery  on
a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations,
zoos and  circuses, or at markets. Here should also be classified
those who look after  or train animals in animal reserves,
stables, zoos, circuses, research  organisations, animal homes,
and similar institutions.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  buying or setting up necessary buildings, open or sheltered
     space, equipment, etc., and maintaining them;

(b)  determining kinds and amounts of animals to be raised;

(c)  purchasing animals, growing or purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(d)  breeding, raising, feeding and tending animals;

(e)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market

(f)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(g)  protecting animals, especially in animal reserves;

(h)  training animals for racing, circus performances and the
     like;

(i)  delivering or marketing products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, bird
  Breeder, game bird
  Breeder, laboratory animal/mice
  Breeder, lion
  Breeder, snail
  Farmer, fur/non-domesticated animals
  Keeper, animal reserve
  Keeper, zoo
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Game-warden - 5169

6122  POULTRY PRODUCERS
 
     Poultry producers plan and carry out the necessary
operations to breed,  raise and tend poultry for sale or delivery
of eggs, meat or feathers on a  regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at markets.

Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of poultry and poultry
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing chicks, growing and purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending poultry, and collecting eggs;

(e)  killing, dressing and packing poultry for shipment;

(f)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(g)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(h)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(i)  performing related tasks;

(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/poultry
  Farmer, poultry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6129  MARKET-ORIENTED ANIMAL PRODUCERS AND RELATED WORKERS NOT
ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED

 
     This unit group covers market-oriented animal producers and
related  workers not classified elsewhere in Minor group 612,
Market-oriented animal  producers and related workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  breeding, raising and tending wild mammals, game
birds and other birds,  snails, non-domesticated fur-giving
animals, snakes and other reptiles, as well  as various insects
and animals used for laboratory tests, for sale or delivery  on
a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations,
zoos and  circuses, or at markets. Here should also be classified
those who look after  or train animals in animal reserves,
stables, zoos, circuses, research  organisations, animal homes,
and similar institutions.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  buying or setting up necessary buildings, open or sheltered
     space, equipment, etc., and maintaining them;

(b)  determining kinds and amounts of animals to be raised;

(c)  purchasing animals, growing or purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(d)  breeding, raising, feeding and tending animals;

(e)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market

(f)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(g)  protecting animals, especially in animal reserves;

(h)  training animals for racing, circus performances and the
     like;

(i)  delivering or marketing products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, bird
  Breeder, game bird
  Breeder, laboratory animal/mice
  Breeder, lion
  Breeder, snail
  Farmer, fur/non-domesticated animals
  Keeper, animal reserve
  Keeper, zoo
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Game-warden - 5169

6121  DAIRY AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS
 
     Dairy and livestock producers plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed,  raise and tend livestock such
as cattle, sheep, pigs, goats,  horses, dogs or cats to be used
as working, sporting, or pet animals, as well  as for meat, milk,
hair, hides and other products, for sale or delivery on a 
regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of livestock and livestock
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing animals, producing and purchasing fodder and
     other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in grazing land, buildings, equipment
     and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending livestock;

(e)  milking animals and shearing sheep;

(f)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market;

(g)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(h)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(i)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, cat
  Breeder, dog
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock
  Farmer, dairy
  Farmer, horse raising
  Farmer, livestock
  Farmer, sheep
  Farmer, sheep/astrakhan
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

8278  BREWERS, WINE AND OTHER BEVERAGE  MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Brewers, wine and other beverage machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which mix, press, or malt and ferment
grains and fruit to make malt  liquors, wine and other alcoholic
or non-alcoholic beverages, except fruit and  vegetable juices.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which process barley and
     other grains used in making distilled and malt liquors, and
     controlling the fermentation process,

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which process grapes and
     other fruit used in making wines, and controlling the
     fermentation process;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which increase or reduce the
     alcohol content of alcoholic beverages;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend wines and
     liquors to obtain desired tastes and flavours;
(e)  operating and monitoring machines which make non-alcoholic
     beverages, except fruit and vegetable juices;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Brewer
  Machine-operator, malting/spirits
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, fruit juice production - 8275
  Taster, wine - 7415

7122  BRICKLAYERS AND STONEMASONS
 

     Bricklayers and stonemasons erect and repair foundations,
walls and  structures of brick, stone and similar materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  laying stone, brick, hollow tile and similar building blocks
     to construct or repair walls, partitions, fireplaces and
     other structures such as smokestacks, furnaces, converters,
     kilns and ovens, piers and abutments;

(b)  laying walks, curbs and pavements of stone;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Bricklayer, construction
  Stonemason, construction

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

3421  TRADE BROKERS

 
     Trade brokers buy and sell commodities, usually in bulk, at
auctions of  the spot or future markets.     Tasks include -

(a)   establishing contact between buyers and sellers of
      commodities;

(b)   discussing buying or selling requirements of client and
      giving advice accordingly;

(c)   arranging for the production of auction catalogues, fixing
      reserve prices, attending auctions of the spot or futures
      markets and bidding on behalf of client;

(d)   negotiating purchase/sale by private treaty of goods not
      sold at auction;

(e)   obtaining cargo space, and fixing and collecting freight
      charges from client;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Broker, commodity
  Broker, shipping
  Broker, trade

3411  SECURITIES AND FINANCE DEALERS AND BROKERS 
     Securities and finance dealers and brokers buy and sell
securities,  stocks, bonds and other financial instruments, and
deal on the foreign  exchange on spot or on futures markets, on
behalf of their own company or for  customers on a commission
basis and recommend transactions to clients or  senior
management.     Tasks include -

(a)   obtaining information about the financial circumstances of
      customers and companies in which investments may be made;

(b)   analysing market trends for securities, bonds, stocks and
      other financial instruments, including foreign exchange;

(c)   informing prospective customers about market conditions and
      prospects;

(d)   advising on and participating in the negotiation of terms
      for, and organisation of, loans and placement of stocks and
      bonds in the financial market to raise capital for
      customers;

(e)   recording and transmitting buy and sell orders for
      securities, stocks, bonds or other financial instruments
      and for foreign exchange for future or immediate delivery;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:  Broker, foreign exchange
  Broker, securities
  Broker, stocks and shares

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:  Clerk, securities - 4122

3412  INSURANCE REPRESENTATIVES 
     Insurance representatives advise on and sell life, accident,
automobile,  liability, endowment, fire, marine and other types
of insurance to new and  established clients.     Tasks include -

(a)   obtaining information about customers' circumstances
      necessary to determine appropriate type of insurance and
      conditions;

(b)   negotiating with customers to determine type and degree of
      risk for which insurance is derived, extent of coverage and
      terms of payment-

(c)   negotiating and placing reinsurance contracts'.

(d)   advising on, negotiating terms for and placing insurance
      contracts for large or special types of projects,
      installations or risks

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Agent, insurance
   Insurance broker
   Underwriter, insurance

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Assessor, insurance - 3417
       Clerk, insurance - 3432

3411  SECURITIES AND FINANCE DEALERS AND BROKERS 
     Securities and finance dealers and brokers buy and sell
securities,  stocks, bonds and other financial instruments, and
deal on the foreign  exchange on spot or on futures markets, on
behalf of their own company or for  customers on a commission
basis and recommend transactions to clients or  senior
management.     Tasks include -

(a)   obtaining information about the financial circumstances of
      customers and companies in which investments may be made;

(b)   analysing market trends for securities, bonds, stocks and
      other financial instruments, including foreign exchange;

(c)   informing prospective customers about market conditions and
      prospects;

(d)   advising on and participating in the negotiation of terms
      for, and organisation of, loans and placement of stocks and
      bonds in the financial market to raise capital for
      customers;

(e)   recording and transmitting buy and sell orders for
      securities, stocks, bonds or other financial instruments
      and for foreign exchange for future or immediate delivery;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:  Broker, foreign exchange
  Broker, securities
  Broker, stocks and shares

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:  Clerk, securities - 4122

3421  TRADE BROKERS

 
     Trade brokers buy and sell commodities, usually in bulk, at
auctions of  the spot or future markets.     Tasks include -

(a)   establishing contact between buyers and sellers of
      commodities;

(b)   discussing buying or selling requirements of client and
      giving advice accordingly;

(c)   arranging for the production of auction catalogues, fixing
      reserve prices, attending auctions of the spot or futures
      markets and bidding on behalf of client;

(d)   negotiating purchase/sale by private treaty of goods not
      sold at auction;

(e)   obtaining cargo space, and fixing and collecting freight
      charges from client;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Broker, commodity
  Broker, shipping
  Broker, trade

3411  SECURITIES AND FINANCE DEALERS AND BROKERS 
     Securities and finance dealers and brokers buy and sell
securities,  stocks, bonds and other financial instruments, and
deal on the foreign  exchange on spot or on futures markets, on
behalf of their own company or for  customers on a commission
basis and recommend transactions to clients or  senior
management.     Tasks include -

(a)   obtaining information about the financial circumstances of
      customers and companies in which investments may be made;

(b)   analysing market trends for securities, bonds, stocks and
      other financial instruments, including foreign exchange;

(c)   informing prospective customers about market conditions and
      prospects;

(d)   advising on and participating in the negotiation of terms
      for, and organisation of, loans and placement of stocks and
      bonds in the financial market to raise capital for
      customers;

(e)   recording and transmitting buy and sell orders for
      securities, stocks, bonds or other financial instruments
      and for foreign exchange for future or immediate delivery;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:  Broker, foreign exchange
  Broker, securities
  Broker, stocks and shares

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:  Clerk, securities - 4122

3421  TRADE BROKERS

 
     Trade brokers buy and sell commodities, usually in bulk, at
auctions of  the spot or future markets.     Tasks include -

(a)   establishing contact between buyers and sellers of
      commodities;

(b)   discussing buying or selling requirements of client and
      giving advice accordingly;

(c)   arranging for the production of auction catalogues, fixing
      reserve prices, attending auctions of the spot or futures
      markets and bidding on behalf of client;

(d)   negotiating purchase/sale by private treaty of goods not
      sold at auction;

(e)   obtaining cargo space, and fixing and collecting freight
      charges from client;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Broker, commodity
  Broker, shipping
  Broker, trade

7141  PAINTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Painters and related workers prepare surfaces of buildings
and other  structures for painting, apply protective and
decorative coats of paint or  similar materials or cover interior
walls and ceilings of buildings with  wallpaper, silk or other
fabrics.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cleaning and preparing walls and other surfaces of buildings
     for painting or wallpapering;

(b)  applying or spraying paint, varnish, shellac and similar
     materials to surfaces, fixtures and fittings of buildings;

(c)  measuring and mounting wallpaper, silk or other fabrics on
     interior walls and ceilings of buildings and ships;

(d)  applying or spraying paint, red lead, bituminous emulsion
     and similar materials to ships' hulls and metal structures,
     steel frameworks of buildings, bridges and metal
     constructions;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers in this group.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Painter, building
  Paperhanger

7324  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED DECORATIVE PAINTERS
 

     Glass, ceramics and related decorative painters decorate
articles made of  wood, metal, textiles, glass, ceramics and
other materials, and plan, lay out  and paint letters and designs
to make signs.

     Tasks include -

(a)  painting designs on articles with a brush, by spraying, or
     by transferring designs using stencils, transfers, rubber
     stamps and other means;

(b)  applying, for decorative purposes, paint, glaze, enamel,
     stain, varnish, lacquer and similar materials on articles
     by spraying or dipping;

(c)  coating mirror glass with silver solutions;

(d)  laying out and painting letters and designs to make signs;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, glass
  Painter, decorative
  Sign-writer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, painting/ceramics - 8131
  Machine-operator, painting/glass - 8131
  Painter, building - 7141
  Painter, manufactured articles - 7142
  Painter, vehicle - 7142

6141  FORESTRY WORKERS AND LOGGERS
 
     Forestry workers and loggers carry out the necessary
operations to  cultivate, conserve and exploit forests, for sale
or delivery of forestry  products on a regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a) establishing and caring for forest stands;

(b)  locating trees to be felled and estimating volume of timber;

(c)  trimming, topping and felling trees and sawing them into
     logs;

(d)  shaping rough wooden products from logs at felling site;

(e)  stacking logs, loading them in chutes or floating them down
     rivers;

(f)  keeping watch to detect forest fires and participating in
     firefighting operations;

(g)  delivering or marketing forestry products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Climber, logging
  Cruiser, timber
  Feller-bucker, tree
  Forestry worker, skilled
  Logger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/forestry
        - 1221
  General manager, forestry - 1311
  Labourer, forestry - 9212
  Managing director, enterprise/forestry - 1210
  Operator, forestry machinery - 8331

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6113  GARDENERS, HORTICULTURAL AND NURSERY GROWERS
 
     Gardeners, horticultural and nursery growers plan and carry
out the  necessary operations to grow vegetables by intensive
cultivation techniques,  to cultivate trees, shrubs, flowers and
other plants, and to produce saplings,  bulbs and seeds, for sale
or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers,  marketing
organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of vegetables, horticultural
     and nursery products to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, bulbs, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery-

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     growing vegetables by intensive cultivation, cultivating
     flowers, trees or bushes and harvesting crops;

(e)  producing saplings, bulbs and seeds;

(f)  cultivating flowers, trees, shrubs and other plants in parks
     or public or private gardens;

(g)  growing plants for exhibition or medicinal purposes;

(h)  delivering or marketing products;

(i)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(j)  tending working animals and maintaining buildings, machinery
     and equipment;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Cultivator, mushroom
  Farm worker, skilled/nursery
  Gardener
  Grower, horticultural nursery
  Horticultural grower
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

7441  PELT DRESSERS, TANNERS AND FELLMONGERS
 

     Pelt dressers, tanners and fellmongers prepare fur- and
wool-bearing  pelts for making garments and other products, and
make leather from hides and  skins.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sorting and grading pelts, hides and skins;

(b)  removing flesh and fat from pelts before curing;

(c)  removing flesh and hair from hides;

(d)  removing long, coarse hair from pelts and trimming
     underlying hair to even length;

(e)  operating machine to split hides edgeways;

(f)  treating hides to convert them into leather;

(g)  applying dyes to fur pelts;

(h)  dressing and applying dyes and stains to leather;

(i)  stretching and smoothing dressed pelts;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fellmonger
  Grader, pelt
  Tanner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, tanning - 8265

7224  METAL WHEEL-GRINDERS, POLISHERS AND TOOL SHARPENERS
 

     Metal wheel-grinders, polishers and tool sharpeners grind
and polish  metal surfaces and sharpen tools.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating fixed or portable buffing and polishing machines;

(b)  sharpening cutting tools and instruments using grinding
     wheel or mechanically operated grinding machines;

(c)  repairing, adjusting and sharpening saw blades and metal
     teeth of cylinders in textile carding machines;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Finisher, metal
  Grinder, tool
  Polisher, metal
  Sharpener, knife
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal - 8223
  Machine-operator polishing/metal -8223

7241  ELECTRICAL MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Electrical mechanics and fitters fit, adjust, install and
repair  electrical machinery and other electrical apparatus and
equipment in  buildings, factories, workshops, or other places.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, adjusting and repairing various kinds of electrical
     machinery and motors, generators, switchgear and control
     apparatus, instruments, or electrical parts of elevators and
     related equipment;

(b)  fitting, adjusting and repairing electrical parts in
     domestic appliances, industrial machines and other
     appliances, or electrical apparatus in aircraft, ships and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing manufactured electrical products;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Builder, armature
  Fitter, electrical/generator
  Mechanic, electrical
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler electrical equipment - 8282

7124  CARPENTERS AND JOINERS
 

     Carpenters and joiners cut, shape, assemble, erect, maintain
and repair various types of wooden structures and fittings.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, altering and repairing structural and other woodwork
     at a work-bench and on a construction site;

(b)  constructing, erecting and installing heavy-framed wooden
     structures on building sites;

(c)  fitting, assembling and altering internal and external
     fixtures of buildings, such as walls, doors, door and window
     frames, facings and panelling;

(d)  making, repairing and fitting scenic equipment for
     theatrical 
     performances, motion picture or television productions;

(e)  constructing, assembling, altering and repairing wooden
     fixtures and fittings in train coaches, aircraft, ships,
     boats, floats, pontoons and other vehicles;

(f)  cutting, shaping, fitting and assembling wooden parts,
     mainly at a work-bench;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carpenter
  Joiner
  Shipwright, wood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cabinet-maker - 7422
  Wheel-wright - 7422

7122  BRICKLAYERS AND STONEMASONS
 

     Bricklayers and stonemasons erect and repair foundations,
walls and  structures of brick, stone and similar materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  laying stone, brick, hollow tile and similar building blocks
     to construct or repair walls, partitions, fireplaces and
     other structures such as smokestacks, furnaces, converters,
     kilns and ovens, piers and abutments;

(b)  laying walks, curbs and pavements of stone;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Bricklayer, construction
  Stonemason, construction

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

7241  ELECTRICAL MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Electrical mechanics and fitters fit, adjust, install and
repair  electrical machinery and other electrical apparatus and
equipment in  buildings, factories, workshops, or other places.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, adjusting and repairing various kinds of electrical
     machinery and motors, generators, switchgear and control
     apparatus, instruments, or electrical parts of elevators and
     related equipment;

(b)  fitting, adjusting and repairing electrical parts in
     domestic appliances, industrial machines and other
     appliances, or electrical apparatus in aircraft, ships and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing manufactured electrical products;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Builder, armature
  Fitter, electrical/generator
  Mechanic, electrical
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler electrical equipment - 8282

7129  BUILDING FRAME AND RELATED TRADES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers building frame and related trades
workers not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 712, Building
frame and related trades  workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who perform
miscellaneous  construction and building maintenance tasks.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  performing miscellaneous construction and building
     maintenance work on structures such as office buildings,
     apartment houses, factories and similar establishments in
     good repair;

(b)  performing construction, maintenance or repair work at
     unusual heights;

(c)  erecting temporary metal or wooden scaffolding on building
     sites;

(d)  demolishing buildings and other structures;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Demolition worker
  Housebuilder, non-traditional materials
  Scaffolder
  Steeplejack
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Labourer, construction/buildings 9313
  Labourer, demolition - 9313

7121  BUILDERS, TRADITIONAL MATERIALS
 

     Builders, traditional materials erect, maintain and repair
small and  large buildings and other structures by using
traditional building techniques  and materials such as bamboo,
hay, straw, reeds, mud, planks, poles or leaves.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing ground for erecting building or other structures;

(b)  collecting necessary materials;

(c)  erecting structures to support roof, and building and
     covering walls with mud, straw or other materials;

(d)  fixing rafters to roof and covering with roofing material;

(e)  levelling floor to make it smooth and serviceable;

(f)  maintaining and repairing existing structures;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Housebuilder, traditional materials

7312  MUSICAL-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND TUNERS
 

     Musical-instrument makers and tuners make, repair and tune
stringed, wind  or percussion instruments with hand or power
tools.

     Tasks include

(a)  making and repairing accordions, stringed and wind
     instruments;

(b)  building and repairing organs and making parts for such
     organs;

(c)  making instrumental parts of pianos and assembling and
     repairing such pianos;

(d)  tuning organs, pianos and other instruments;

(e)  making and repairing other musical instruments;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/musical (brass)
  Maker, instrument/musical (string)
  Maker, instrument/musical (woodwind)
  Tuner, musical instrument

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

7416  TOBACCO PREPARERS AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Tobacco preparers and tobacco products makers prepare
tobacco leaves and  make various tobacco products.

     Tasks  include -

(a)  grading cured tobacco leaves by type, quality and locality
     where grown;

(b)  mixing tobacco leaves according to formula to obtain a blend
     of distinct flavour;

(c)  tending vacuum container which moistens tobacco for further
     processing;

(d)  removing midribs and stalks from tobacco leaves and
     shredding tobacco;

(e)  making cigars, cigarettes, snuff and other tobacco products
     by hand or with simple machines;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, tobacco
  Maker, cigar
  Maker, cigarette
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, cigar production - 8279
  Machine-operator, cigarette production - 8279

6142  CHARCOAL BURNERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Charcoal burners and related workers carry out the necessary
operations  to convert wood into charcoal or to extract crude
turpentine from wood, using  traditional techniques.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating a simple kiln to convert wood into charcoal by a
     slow-burning process.

(b)  operating a simple digester or still at the tree-felling
     site to obtain or distil crude wood turpentine-,

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Burner, charcoal
  Forestry worker, skilled/wood distillation (traditional
        techniques)

7212    WELDERS AND FLAMECUTTERS
 

     Welders and flame cutters weld and cut metal parts using gas
flame, or an  electric arc and other sources of heat to melt and
cut, or to melt and fuse  metal.

     Tasks include -

(a)  welding metal parts using gas flame, or an electric arc,
     thermite compound or other methods;

(b)  operating resistance-welding machines;

(c)  using blowtorch to make and repair lead linings, pipes,
     floors and other lead fixtures;

(d)  brazing metal parts together;

(e)  cutting metal pieces using gas flame or an electric arc;

(f)  joining metal parts by hand soldering;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Brazier
  Flamecutter
  Welder

7321  ABRASIVE WHEEL FORMERS, POTTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Abrasive wheel formers, potters and related workers make
pottery,  porcelain ware, bricks, tiles and abrasive wheels.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making articles of pottery and porcelain;

(b)  making clay or plaster-of-Paris moulds;

(c)  forming articles on potter's wheel with hands, or using
     interior or exterior moulding shapes and shaping tools;

(d)  forming articles by casting semi-liquid clay in plaster-of-
     Paris moulds;

(e)  forming bricks and tiles into special shapes by hand;

(f)  making articles by pressing plastic clay into moulds by
     hand;

(g)  operating screw-press or hydraulic press to make products
     from clay dust;

(h)  operating a machine which extrudes moist clay for further
     processing;

(i)  forming abrasive wheels by moulding and pressing abrasive
     mixture;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Caster, pottery and porcelain
  Modeller, pottery and porcelain
  Potter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln operator, brick and tile - 8131
  Kiln operator, pottery and porcelain 8131

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

7224  METAL WHEEL-GRINDERS, POLISHERS AND TOOL SHARPENERS
 

     Metal wheel-grinders, polishers and tool sharpeners grind
and polish  metal surfaces and sharpen tools.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating fixed or portable buffing and polishing machines;

(b)  sharpening cutting tools and instruments using grinding
     wheel or mechanically operated grinding machines;

(c)  repairing, adjusting and sharpening saw blades and metal
     teeth of cylinders in textile carding machines;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Finisher, metal
  Grinder, tool
  Polisher, metal
  Sharpener, knife
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal - 8223
  Machine-operator polishing/metal -8223

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

5121  HOUSEKEEPERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Housekeepers and related workers organise, supervise and
carry out  housekeeping functions in hotels, clubs, boarding
schools and other  enterprises and institutions and in private
households.

     Tasks include -

(a)  engaging, training, discharging organising and supervising
     workers employed as domestic staff;

(b)  purchasing or controlling the purchase of supplies;

(c)  controlling storage and issue of supplies;

(d)  supervising general welfare and conduct of individuals in
     institutions;

(e)  assisting in cases of minor injury or illness by performing
     tasks such as taking temperature, giving medicine, putting
     on bandages;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Housekeeper
  Matron, housekeeping
  Steward, house

3416  BUYERS 
     Buyers buy goods and services on behalf of industrial,
commercial or  other enterprises and organisations.     Tasks include -

(a)   negotiating and contracting for the purchase of equipment,
      raw materials, products and supplies for industrial plant,
      utilities, government units or other establishments and the
      purchasing of merchandise for resale;

(b)   obtaining information about requirements and stock, and
      determining quantity and quality to be purchased, costs,
      delivery dates and other contract conditions;

(c)   performing related tasks;

(d)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Buyer
  Buyer, merchandise/retail trade
  Buyer, merchandise/wholesale trade

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

7215  RIGGERS AND CABLE SPLICERS
 

     Riggers and cable splicers erect tackle for lifting and
hauling,' or  install and maintain cables, ropes and wires on
construction sites, oil- and  gas-well drilling sites, or in
ships, aircraft, and other places.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting up various types of cages, funicular railways,
     aerial cableways, moving platforms, lifting tackle and other
     hoisting equipment for moving passengers, workers,
     materials, machinery and other heavy objects in mountainous
     areas, across deep gorges or fjords, about workshops,
     shipyards, or other locations;

(b)  joining, repairing and fitting attachments to wires, hemp
     ropes and cables;

(c)  installing and repairing ropes, wires and cables on ships
     and aircraft;

(d)  working as member of crew erecting and repairing derricks
     for drilling water, gas- and oil-wells and installing
     cables, hoisting and drilling equipment;

(e)  working as member of cable crew fitting and installing wire
     cables in the construction of suspension bridges,

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Rigger
  Rigger, ship
  Splicer, cable and rope
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, splicing/cable and rope - 8290

7245  ELECTRICAL LINE INSTALLERS, REPAIRERS AND CABLE JOINTERS
 

     Electrical line installers, repairers and cable jointers
install and  repair electrical lines and joint cables.

     Tasks include -

(a)  installing and repairing overhead and underground electrical
     power and electrical traction lines;

(b)  installing and repairing overhead and underground telephone
     and telegraph lines;

(c)  making joints in overhead and underground cables;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cable worker, telegraph
  Jointer, cable/electric
  Line worker/electric power
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, electrical line installation - 8290

7215  RIGGERS AND CABLE SPLICERS
 

     Riggers and cable splicers erect tackle for lifting and
hauling,' or  install and maintain cables, ropes and wires on
construction sites, oil- and  gas-well drilling sites, or in
ships, aircraft, and other places.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting up various types of cages, funicular railways,
     aerial cableways, moving platforms, lifting tackle and other
     hoisting equipment for moving passengers, workers,
     materials, machinery and other heavy objects in mountainous
     areas, across deep gorges or fjords, about workshops,
     shipyards, or other locations;

(b)  joining, repairing and fitting attachments to wires, hemp
     ropes and cables;

(c)  installing and repairing ropes, wires and cables on ships
     and aircraft;

(d)  working as member of crew erecting and repairing derricks
     for drilling water, gas- and oil-wells and installing
     cables, hoisting and drilling equipment;

(e)  working as member of cable crew fitting and installing wire
     cables in the construction of suspension bridges,

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Rigger
  Rigger, ship
  Splicer, cable and rope
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, splicing/cable and rope - 8290

7245  ELECTRICAL LINE INSTALLERS, REPAIRERS AND CABLE JOINTERS
 

     Electrical line installers, repairers and cable jointers
install and  repair electrical lines and joint cables.

     Tasks include -

(a)  installing and repairing overhead and underground electrical
     power and electrical traction lines;

(b)  installing and repairing overhead and underground telephone
     and telegraph lines;

(c)  making joints in overhead and underground cables;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cable worker, telegraph
  Jointer, cable/electric
  Line worker/electric power
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, electrical line installation - 8290

9151  MESSENGERS, PACKAGE AND LUGGAGE PORTERS AND DELIVERERS
 

     Messengers, package and luggage porters and deliverers carry
and deliver  messages, packages and other items within an
establishment or between  establishments, to households and
elsewhere, or carry luggage especially at  hotels, stations and
airports.

     Tasks include -

(a)  delivering messages, packages and other items within an
     establishment or between establishments, or elsewhere;

(b)  performing the duties of a post-runner;

(c)  delivering various goods to and from enterprises, shops,
     households and other places;

(d)  carrying and delivering luggage at hotels, stations,
     airports, and elsewhere;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Deliverer, hand/newspapers
  Messenger
  Porter, luggage
  Post-runner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Postman - 4142
  Postwoman - 4142

8264  BLEACHING-, DYEING- AND CLEANING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 


     Bleaching-, dyeing- and cleaning-machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which bleach, dye, wash and otherwise treat
fibres, yarn, or cloth or dry clean textile, fur and leather
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which treat textile
     products to make them lighter in colour or to give them a
     specific colour;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which wash or dry-clean
     textile, fur or leather products to remove dirt, impurities,
     excess chemicals or natural gum;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which shrink cloth or
     strengthen the weave by interlocking the fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which impregnate textiles
     with chemicals to render them waterproof;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which treat silk to give
     it body and weight;

(f)  operating and monitoring machines which press, stretch, or
     impart lustre, or other type of finish to textiles;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dry-cleaning
  Machine-operator, dyeing/textile fibres
  Machine-operator, laundering
  Machine-operator, pressing/laundry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Launderer, hand - 91 33
  Presser, hand - 91 33

7311  PRECISION-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND REPAIRERS

 

     Precision-instrument makers and repairers make and repair
mechanical  watches, clocks, nautical, meteorological, optical,
surgical, dental,  orthopaedic and other precision instruments
and equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, adjusting and repairing mechanical watches and
     clocks;

(b)  making, adjusting and repairing nautical and meteorological
     instruments and equipment;

(c)  making, adjusting and repairing optical instruments;

(d)  making, adjusting and repairing surgical instruments and
     other medical equipment;

(e)  making and repairing medical, orthopaedic and dental
     appliances and prostheses;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/meteorological
  Maker, instrument/surgical
  Maker, orthopaedic appliance
  Maker, watch
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, watch - 8283
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

3131  PHOTOGRAPHERS AND IMAGE AND SOUND RECORDING EQUIPMENT
OPERATORS 
     Photographers and image and sound recording equipment
operators take  photographs, control motion picture and video
cameras and other equipment to  record and edit images and sound.

 
    Tasks include -

(a)   taking photographs for advertising, or other commercial,
      industrial or scientific purposes and to illustrate stories
      and articles in newspapers, magazines and other
      publications;

(b)   taking portrait photographs of persons and groups of
      persons;

(c)   setting and operating motion picture, video, microscopic
      and other specialised cameras, including those for aerial
      photography, to record images;

(d)   controlling equipment to record sound for motion pictures,
      videotapes, gramophone records, audio tapes, digital discs,
      direct broadcasting or other purposes.,

(e)   controlling equipment to edit and mix image and sound
      recordings to ensure satisfactory quality and to create
      special image and sound effects;

(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of image and
      sound recording and editing in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, camera/motion picture
  Operator, recording equipment/sound
  Operator, studio equipment/television
  Photographer

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Mechanic, electronics - 7243
  Photographer, photogravure - 7343
  Photolithographer - 7343
  Repairer, photographic equipment 7311

7343  PRINTING ENGRAVERS AND ETCHERS
 

     Printing engravers and etchers engrave lithographic stones
and printing  plates, rollers, dies and blocks by various
processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting designs through film applied to surface of
     lithographic stones;

(b)  engraving steel and copper plates, rollers, dies or wood,
     rubber and linoleum blocks by hand;

(c)  engraving metal plates and rollers by machine;

(d)  transferring designs from lithographic stone to metal
     plates;

(e)  performing all or several tasks in preparing printing plates
     by photogravure process;

(f)  etching metal plates or rollers with acid and retouching;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Engraver, printing/lithographic stone
  Engraver, printing/metal plate
  Etcher, printing/metal plate
  Photo-engraver
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Designer, graphic - 3471

3131  PHOTOGRAPHERS AND IMAGE AND SOUND RECORDING EQUIPMENT
OPERATORS 
     Photographers and image and sound recording equipment
operators take  photographs, control motion picture and video
cameras and other equipment to  record and edit images and sound.

 
    Tasks include -

(a)   taking photographs for advertising, or other commercial,
      industrial or scientific purposes and to illustrate stories
      and articles in newspapers, magazines and other
      publications;

(b)   taking portrait photographs of persons and groups of
      persons;

(c)   setting and operating motion picture, video, microscopic
      and other specialised cameras, including those for aerial
      photography, to record images;

(d)   controlling equipment to record sound for motion pictures,
      videotapes, gramophone records, audio tapes, digital discs,
      direct broadcasting or other purposes.,

(e)   controlling equipment to edit and mix image and sound
      recordings to ensure satisfactory quality and to create
      special image and sound effects;

(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of image and
      sound recording and editing in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, camera/motion picture
  Operator, recording equipment/sound
  Operator, studio equipment/television
  Photographer

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Mechanic, electronics - 7243
  Photographer, photogravure - 7343
  Photolithographer - 7343
  Repairer, photographic equipment 7311

7343  PRINTING ENGRAVERS AND ETCHERS
 

     Printing engravers and etchers engrave lithographic stones
and printing  plates, rollers, dies and blocks by various
processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting designs through film applied to surface of
     lithographic stones;

(b)  engraving steel and copper plates, rollers, dies or wood,
     rubber and linoleum blocks by hand;

(c)  engraving metal plates and rollers by machine;

(d)  transferring designs from lithographic stone to metal
     plates;

(e)  performing all or several tasks in preparing printing plates
     by photogravure process;

(f)  etching metal plates or rollers with acid and retouching;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Engraver, printing/lithographic stone
  Engraver, printing/metal plate
  Etcher, printing/metal plate
  Photo-engraver
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Designer, graphic - 3471

7414  FRUIT, VEGETABLE AND RELATED PRESERVERS
 

     Fruit, vegetable and related preservers process or preserve
fruit, nuts  and related foods in various ways including cooking,
drying, salting, or juice  or oil extraction.

     Tasks include -

(a)  extracting juices from various fruits;

(b)  extracting oils from oil-bearing seeds, nuts or fruits;

(c)  cooking, salting or drying fruit, vegetables and related
     foods;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Expeller, oil
  Preserver, fruit
  Preserver, vegetable
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, canning/fruit - 8275
  Machine-operator, canning/vegetables - 8275

3415  TECHNICAL AND COMMERCIAL SALES REPRESENTATIVES 
     Technical and commercial sales representatives sell various
goods on a  wholesale basis including installations, equipment
and technical products and  related services, and provide
specialised information as required.     Tasks include -

(a)   soliciting orders and selling goods to retail, industrial,
      wholesale and other establishments;

(b)   selling technical equipment, supplies and related services
      to business establishments or individuals;

(c)   providing prospective customers with general and
      specialised information about the characteristics and
      functions of the equipment, and 
     demonstrating its use;

(d)   reporting customers' reactions and requirements to
      manufacturers;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Adviser, after-sales service
  Canvasser
  Commercial traveller
  Salesperson, technical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Salesperson, retail establishment - 5220

3143  AIRCRAFT PILOTS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Aircraft pilots and related associate professionals control
the operation  of mechanical, electrical and electronic
equipment, in order to navigate  aircraft for transporting
passengers, mail and freight and perform related  preflight and
in-flight tasks.

  
   Tasks include -

(a)   flying and navigating aircraft in accordance with
      established control and operating procedures;

(b)   preparing and submitting flight plan or examining standard
      flight plan;

(c)   controlling the operation of mechanical, electrical and
      electronic equipment and ensuring that all instruments and
      controls work properly;

(d)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of flying
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Engineer, flight
  Navigator, flight
  Pilot, aircraft

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Instructor, flying - 3340

3142  SHIPS' DECK OFFICERS AND PILOTS 
     Ships' deck officers and pilots command and navigate ships
and similar  vessels, and perform related functions on shore.

     Tasks include -

(a)   commanding and navigating ship or similar vessel at sea or
      on inland waterways;

(b)   controlling and participating in deck and bridge-watch
      activities;

(c)   navigating vessels into and out of ports and through
      channels, straits and other waters where special knowledge
      is required;

(d)   ensuring safe loading and unloading of cargo and observance
      of safety regulations and procedures by crew and
      passengers'.

(e)   performing technical supervision of maintenance and repair
      of ship to ensure compliance with specifications and
      regulations;

(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices relating to
      ship's operation and navigation in order to identify and
      solve problems arising in the course of their work;

(g)   ordering ship's stores and recruiting crew as required and
      maintaining record of operations;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Captain ship/sea
  Pilot, ship
  Skipper, yacht

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Sailor - 8340

7431  FIBRE PREPARERS
 

     Fibre preparers prepare wool, cotton,flax, jute, hemp and
other natural  textile fibres for spinning and winding.

     Tasks include -

(a)  grading and classifying natural textile fibres;

(b)  washing wool fibres;

(c)  cleaning and fluffing textile fibres;

(d)  forming fibres into sliver, combing them, combining sliver
     into sliver laps or forming sliver into rove;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Comber, fibre/textiles
  Drawer, fibre/textiles
  Rover, fibre/textiles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator combing/textile fibres - 8261

2221  MEDICAL DOCTORS 
     Medical doctors conduct research, improve or develop
concepts, theories  and operational methods, and apply preventive
or curative measures.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research into human disorders and illnesses and
      preventive or curative methods;

(b)   conducting medical examinations and making diagnoses;

(c)   prescribing and giving treatment for diagnosed illnesses,
      disorders or injuries;

(d)   giving specialised medical or surgical treatment for
      particular types of illnesses, disorders or injuries;

(e)   giving advice on and applying preventive medicine methods
      and treatments;

(f)   participating in the development and implementation of
      public health laws and regulations for safeguarding and
      promoting the health of a community;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Doctor, medical
  Ophthalmologist
  Physician
  Psychiatrist
  Surgeon

9141  BUILDING CARETAKERS
 

     Building caretakers take care of apartment houses, hotels,
offices,  churches and other buildings and maintain them in a
clean and orderly  condition.

     Tasks include -

(a)  participating in cleaning, simple repairs and maintenance
     of building interiors;

(b)  tending furnaces and boilers to ensure provision of heat and
     hot water;

(c)  regulating conduct of tenants and visitors in such matters
     as noise abatement or misuse of property;

(d)  providing small services to absent tenants such as accepting
     deliveries on their behalf or providing requested
     information to callers;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Caretaker, building/cleaning
  Concierge, building
  Janitor
  Sexton

2452  SCULPTORS, PAINTERS AND RELATED ARTISTS 
     Sculptors, painters and related artists create and execute
works of art  by sculpting, painting, drawing, creating cartoons,
engraving or using related  techniques.

     Tasks include -

(a)   creating representational or abstract three-dimensional or
      relief forms by shaping and combining materials such as
      wood, stone, clay or metal;

(b)   creating representational or abstract drawings and
      paintings using pencils, ink, chalk, oil paints, water
      colours or through the application of other techniques;

(c)   creating drawings and engraving or etching them on metal,
      wood, or other materials;

(d)   creating cartoons to depict persons and events, often in
      caricature;

(e)   creating and executing designs and illustrations for books,
      magazines, advertising and similar purposes;

(f)   restoring damaged, soiled and faded paintings and other art
      objects;

(g)   painting miniatures;

(h)   per-forming related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Artist, commercial
  Cartoonist
  Engraver-etcher, artistic
  Painter, portrait
  Restorer, picture
  Sculptor

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Designer, industrial products - 3471

7124  CARPENTERS AND JOINERS
 

     Carpenters and joiners cut, shape, assemble, erect, maintain
and repair various types of wooden structures and fittings.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, altering and repairing structural and other woodwork
     at a work-bench and on a construction site;

(b)  constructing, erecting and installing heavy-framed wooden
     structures on building sites;

(c)  fitting, assembling and altering internal and external
     fixtures of buildings, such as walls, doors, door and window
     frames, facings and panelling;

(d)  making, repairing and fitting scenic equipment for
     theatrical 
     performances, motion picture or television productions;

(e)  constructing, assembling, altering and repairing wooden
     fixtures and fittings in train coaches, aircraft, ships,
     boats, floats, pontoons and other vehicles;

(f)  cutting, shaping, fitting and assembling wooden parts,
     mainly at a work-bench;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carpenter
  Joiner
  Shipwright, wood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cabinet-maker - 7422
  Wheel-wright - 7422

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

2148 CARTOGRAPHERS AND SURVEYORS 
     Cartographers and surveyors apply surveying methods and
techniques to  determine the exact position of natural and
constructed features and  boundaries of land, seas, underground
areas and celestial bodies, and prepare  or revise digital,
graphic and pictorial representations.

     Tasks include:

(a)   surveying, measuring and describing land surfaces for
      various purposes, including mapmaking, construction work
or
      establishment of property boundaries;


(b)   surveying mines, delineating underground surfaces, noting
      exact position of various features and making charts and
      maps with a view to controlling direction and extent of
      mining;

(c)   surveying sea, river and lake beds, delineating underwater
      surfaces, noting exact position of various features and
      making charts and maps to be used in particular in
      determining navigable waters and channels and in planning
      construction of marine structures;

(d)   planning and conducting aerial photographic surveys;

(e)   analysing aerial and other photographs, remote sensing and
      surveying data to prepare and revise topographic maps and
      charts, utility maps and other thematic maps;

(f)   studying and advising on technical, aesthetic and economic
      aspects of map production;

(g)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Cartographer
  Photogrammetrist
  Surveyor, aerial
  Surveyor, hydrographic
  Surveyor, land
  Surveyor, mining

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Surveyor, marine: 3115
  Surveyor, quantity: 2149

2452  SCULPTORS, PAINTERS AND RELATED ARTISTS 
     Sculptors, painters and related artists create and execute
works of art  by sculpting, painting, drawing, creating cartoons,
engraving or using related  techniques.

     Tasks include -

(a)   creating representational or abstract three-dimensional or
      relief forms by shaping and combining materials such as
      wood, stone, clay or metal;

(b)   creating representational or abstract drawings and
      paintings using pencils, ink, chalk, oil paints, water
      colours or through the application of other techniques;

(c)   creating drawings and engraving or etching them on metal,
      wood, or other materials;

(d)   creating cartoons to depict persons and events, often in
      caricature;

(e)   creating and executing designs and illustrations for books,
      magazines, advertising and similar purposes;

(f)   restoring damaged, soiled and faded paintings and other art
      objects;

(g)   painting miniatures;

(h)   per-forming related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Artist, commercial
  Cartoonist
  Engraver-etcher, artistic
  Painter, portrait
  Restorer, picture
  Sculptor

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Designer, industrial products - 3471

7113  STONE SPLITTERS, CUTTERS AND CARVERS
 



     Stone splitters, cutters and carvers break quarried stone
slabs or  blocks, or by using hand or hand-powered tools cut,
shape and finish stone for  building, ornamental, monumental and
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving wedges into quarried stone to break it into slabs
     or blocks;

(b)  selecting and grading slabs and blocks of granite, marble,
     and other stone;

(c)  cutting, shaping and finishing building and monumental stone
     such as granite or marble by using hand or hand-powered
     tools;

(d)  making patterns and marking shapes on stone for subsequent
     sawing, planing, drilling and other dressing and cutting
     operations;

(e)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     blocks used for monuments or memorials;

(f)  setting stone in the erection of monuments and memorials;

(g)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     used for decorative facings on buildings-

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carver, stone
  Cutter, stone
  Mason, monument
  Splitter, stone
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, carving/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, cutting/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, splitting/stone 8112
  Sculptor - 2452
  Stonemason, construction - 7122

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

7113  STONE SPLITTERS, CUTTERS AND CARVERS
 



     Stone splitters, cutters and carvers break quarried stone
slabs or  blocks, or by using hand or hand-powered tools cut,
shape and finish stone for  building, ornamental, monumental and
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving wedges into quarried stone to break it into slabs
     or blocks;

(b)  selecting and grading slabs and blocks of granite, marble,
     and other stone;

(c)  cutting, shaping and finishing building and monumental stone
     such as granite or marble by using hand or hand-powered
     tools;

(d)  making patterns and marking shapes on stone for subsequent
     sawing, planing, drilling and other dressing and cutting
     operations;

(e)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     blocks used for monuments or memorials;

(f)  setting stone in the erection of monuments and memorials;

(g)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     used for decorative facings on buildings-

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carver, stone
  Cutter, stone
  Mason, monument
  Splitter, stone
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, carving/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, cutting/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, splitting/stone 8112
  Sculptor - 2452
  Stonemason, construction - 7122

3460  SOCIAL WORK ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
      Social work associate professionals provide guidance to
clients in social and related matters to enable them to find and
use resources to overcome difficulties and achieve particular
goals.      Tasks include:

(a)   helping individuals and families with personal and social
      problems;

(b)   collecting information relevant to clients' needs and
      advising them on their rights and obligations;

(c)   analysing the client's situation and presenting alternative
      approaches to resolving problems;

(d)   compiling case records or reports for court and other legal
      proceedings;

(e)   planning, evaluating, improving and developing welfare
      services;

(f)   working to prevent development of delinquency or to achieve
      rehabilitation of delinquents by organising and supervising
      social, recreational and educational activities in youth
      clubs, community centres and similar organisations, or by
      other means;

(g)   helping physically or mentally handicapped persons to
      obtain adequate treatment and improve their ability to
      function in society;

(h)   planning, organising or providing home-help services;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Social worker, associate professional
  Social worker, associate professional/enterprise
  Welfare worker, associate professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Social worker, professional - 2446
  Social worker, professional/enterprise - 2446
  Welfare worker, professional -2446

2446  SOCIAL WORK PROFESSIONALS 
     Social work professionals provide guidance to clients in
social and  related matters to enable them to find and use
resources to overcome  difficulties and achieve particular goals.

     Tasks include

(a)   helping individuals and families with personal and social
      problems;

(b)   collecting information relevant to clients' needs and
      advising them on their rights and obligations;

(c)   analysing the client's situation and presenting alternative
      approaches to resolving problems;

(d)   compiling case records or reports for courts and other
      legal proceedings;

(e)   planning, evaluating, improving and developing welfare
      services;

(f)   working to prevent development of delinquency or to achieve
      rehabilitation of delinquents by organising and supervising
      social, recreational and educational activities in youth
      clubs, community centres and similar organisations, or by
      other means;

(g)   helping physically or mentally handicapped persons to
      obtain adequate treatment and improve their ability to
      function in society;

(h)   planning, organising or providing home-help services;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Social worker, professional
  Social worker, professional/enterprise
  Welfare worker, professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Social worker, associate professional - 3460
  Social worker, associate professional/enterprise - 3460
  Welfare worker, associate professional - 3460

4211  CASHIERS AND TICKET CLERKS
 
     Cashiers and ticket clerks receive, directly from clients,
payments for  goods or services bought in establishments such as
stores and ticket offices,  or they pay out cash in banks and
related organisations.
     Tasks include -
(a)  receiving and verifying cash, cheque or credit-card payments
     in stores, ticket offices, or similar establishments;
(b)  giving change and issuing receipts;
(c)  issuing tickets at ticket offices, and taking corresponding
     payments;
(d)  paying out cash, mostly in banks, against written orders,
     credit notes, or resulting from currency exchanges, and
     obtaining receipts;
(e)  keeping records and reconciling them with cash balance;
(f)  receiving incoming cash of an establishment, checking it
     against sales slips and other documents, and preparing it
     for deposit at bank;
(g)  paying out wages to establishments' personnel;
(h)  operating cash register;
(i)  performing related tasks;
(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Cashier,bank 
  Cashier, store
  Clerk, ticket issuing/except travel

4212  TELLERS AND OTHER COUNTER CLERKS
 
     Tellers and other counter clerks deal directly with clients
of banks or  post offices in connection with receiving, changing
and paying out money, or  providing mail services.
     Tasks include -

(a)  receiving money or cheques from clients;
(b)  paying out money to clients;
(c)  paying bills and making money transfers on clients' behalf;
(d)  crediting and debiting clients' accounts;
(e)  changing money from one currency to another, as requested
     by clients;
(f)  making records of all transactions and reconciling them with
     cash balance;
(g)  receiving mail, selling postage stamps and conducting other
     post office counter business such as bill payments, money
     transfers and related business;
(h)  performing related tasks;
(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, post office counter
  Money changer
  Teller, bank

4211  CASHIERS AND TICKET CLERKS
 
     Cashiers and ticket clerks receive, directly from clients,
payments for  goods or services bought in establishments such as
stores and ticket offices,  or they pay out cash in banks and
related organisations.
     Tasks include -
(a)  receiving and verifying cash, cheque or credit-card payments
     in stores, ticket offices, or similar establishments;
(b)  giving change and issuing receipts;
(c)  issuing tickets at ticket offices, and taking corresponding
     payments;
(d)  paying out cash, mostly in banks, against written orders,
     credit notes, or resulting from currency exchanges, and
     obtaining receipts;
(e)  keeping records and reconciling them with cash balance;
(f)  receiving incoming cash of an establishment, checking it
     against sales slips and other documents, and preparing it
     for deposit at bank;
(g)  paying out wages to establishments' personnel;
(h)  operating cash register;
(i)  performing related tasks;
(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Cashier,bank 
  Cashier, store
  Clerk, ticket issuing/except travel

4212  TELLERS AND OTHER COUNTER CLERKS
 
     Tellers and other counter clerks deal directly with clients
of banks or  post offices in connection with receiving, changing
and paying out money, or  providing mail services.
     Tasks include -

(a)  receiving money or cheques from clients;
(b)  paying out money to clients;
(c)  paying bills and making money transfers on clients' behalf;
(d)  crediting and debiting clients' accounts;
(e)  changing money from one currency to another, as requested
     by clients;
(f)  making records of all transactions and reconciling them with
     cash balance;
(g)  receiving mail, selling postage stamps and conducting other
     post office counter business such as bill payments, money
     transfers and related business;
(h)  performing related tasks;
(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, post office counter
  Money changer
  Teller, bank

4211  CASHIERS AND TICKET CLERKS
 
     Cashiers and ticket clerks receive, directly from clients,
payments for  goods or services bought in establishments such as
stores and ticket offices,  or they pay out cash in banks and
related organisations.
     Tasks include -
(a)  receiving and verifying cash, cheque or credit-card payments
     in stores, ticket offices, or similar establishments;
(b)  giving change and issuing receipts;
(c)  issuing tickets at ticket offices, and taking corresponding
     payments;
(d)  paying out cash, mostly in banks, against written orders,
     credit notes, or resulting from currency exchanges, and
     obtaining receipts;
(e)  keeping records and reconciling them with cash balance;
(f)  receiving incoming cash of an establishment, checking it
     against sales slips and other documents, and preparing it
     for deposit at bank;
(g)  paying out wages to establishments' personnel;
(h)  operating cash register;
(i)  performing related tasks;
(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Cashier,bank 
  Cashier, store
  Clerk, ticket issuing/except travel

7123  CONCRETE PLACERS, CONCRETE FINISHERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Concrete placers, concrete finishers and related workers
erect reinforced  concrete frameworks and structures, make forms
for moulding concrete,  reinforce concrete surfaces, cement
openings in walls or casings for wells,  finish and repair cement
surfaces and carry out terrazzo work.
     
     Tasks include -

(a)  constructing and repairing reinforced concrete floors,
     walls, tanks, silos and other concrete structures;

(b)  making shuttering or assembling prefabricated forms for
     moulding concrete;

(c)  cementing openings in walls or casings for wells;

(d)  finishing and smoothing surfaces of concrete structures;

(e)  applying a durable, smooth surfacing composed of cement,
     sand pigment and marble particles to floors, known as a
     terrazzo finish;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Finisher, cement
  Placer, concrete
  Terrazzo worker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, finishing/concrete 8212
  Operator, road surface laying machinery - 8332

7342  STEREOTYPERS AND ELECTROTYPERS
 

     Stereotypers and electrotypers make printing plates from
set-up type by  stereotyping and electroplating processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making moulds of set-up type with papier mâché, wax or other
     materials;

(b)  making printing plates by casting metal in moulds of papier
     mâché or other material bearing impression of type, or by
     putting lead alloy backing on copper shell made by
     electroplating moulds to reproduce type;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Electrotyper
  Stereotyper

7313  JEWELLERY AND PRECIOUS-METAL WORKERS
 

     Jewellery and precious-metal workers make and repair
jewellery and  precious metalware, cut and set gems and engrave
designs on jewellery and  precious metal articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  casting jewellery and other non-ferrous metal articles by
     hand;

(b)  making complete jewellery articles such as rings, brooches
     and bracelets;

(c)  cutting and polishing gems and setting them in jewellery
     articles;

(d)  making and repairing precious metalware;

(e)  rolling and beating precious metals; engraving letters and
     designs on jewellery and precious metalware;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, jewellery
  Goldsmith
  Jeweller
  Setter, gem
  Silversmith

7221  BLACKSMITHS, HAMMER-SMITHS AND FORGING-PRESS WORKERS
 

     Blacksmiths, hammer-smiths and forging-press workers draw
wire, hammer  and forge bars, rods, ingots and plates of iron,
steel or other metals to make  and repair various kinds of tools,
metal articles, pieces of equipment,  agricultural and related
implements.

     Tasks include -

(a)  heating metal in forge furnace and manufacturing and
     repairing articles by drawing, bending, cutting, hammering
     metal on an anvil, punching, shearing, joining and hardening
     or tempering;

(b)  shaping heated metal into forgings on power hammer equipped
     with open dies;

(c)  operating closed-die drop hammer to forge metal articles;

(d)  operating a power-press machine equipped with closed dies
to
     forge metal articles;

(e)  drawing wire;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blacksmith
  Drop-hammer worker
  Forging-press worker
  Hammer-smith
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, casting/metal - 8122
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

7321  ABRASIVE WHEEL FORMERS, POTTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Abrasive wheel formers, potters and related workers make
pottery,  porcelain ware, bricks, tiles and abrasive wheels.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making articles of pottery and porcelain;

(b)  making clay or plaster-of-Paris moulds;

(c)  forming articles on potter's wheel with hands, or using
     interior or exterior moulding shapes and shaping tools;

(d)  forming articles by casting semi-liquid clay in plaster-of-
     Paris moulds;

(e)  forming bricks and tiles into special shapes by hand;

(f)  making articles by pressing plastic clay into moulds by
     hand;

(g)  operating screw-press or hydraulic press to make products
     from clay dust;

(h)  operating a machine which extrudes moist clay for further
     processing;

(i)  forming abrasive wheels by moulding and pressing abrasive
     mixture;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Caster, pottery and porcelain
  Modeller, pottery and porcelain
  Potter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln operator, brick and tile - 8131
  Kiln operator, pottery and porcelain 8131

7342  STEREOTYPERS AND ELECTROTYPERS
 

     Stereotypers and electrotypers make printing plates from
set-up type by  stereotyping and electroplating processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making moulds of set-up type with papier mâché, wax or other
     materials;

(b)  making printing plates by casting metal in moulds of papier
     mâché or other material bearing impression of type, or by
     putting lead alloy backing on copper shell made by
     electroplating moulds to reproduce type;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Electrotyper
  Stereotyper

9151  MESSENGERS, PACKAGE AND LUGGAGE PORTERS AND DELIVERERS
 

     Messengers, package and luggage porters and deliverers carry
and deliver  messages, packages and other items within an
establishment or between  establishments, to households and
elsewhere, or carry luggage especially at  hotels, stations and
airports.

     Tasks include -

(a)  delivering messages, packages and other items within an
     establishment or between establishments, or elsewhere;

(b)  performing the duties of a post-runner;

(c)  delivering various goods to and from enterprises, shops,
     households and other places;

(d)  carrying and delivering luggage at hotels, stations,
     airports, and elsewhere;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Deliverer, hand/newspapers
  Messenger
  Porter, luggage
  Post-runner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Postman - 4142
  Postwoman - 4142

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

3117  MINING AND METALLURGICAL TECHNICIANS
 
     Mining and metallurgical technicians perform technical tasks
connected  with metallurgical research to develop improved
methods of extracting solid  minerals, oil and gas, as well as
with the design, construction, operation,  maintenance and repair
of mines and mine installations, systems for  transporting and
storing oil and natural gas, and plant for extracting metals 
from their ores and refining metal.

     Tasks include -

(a)   providing technical assistance connected with research and
      the development of processes to determine the properties
      of metal and new alloys, or of improved methods for the
      extraction of solid minerals, oil and natural gas, and for
      transporting and storing oil and natural gas, or testing
      prototypes;

(b)   providing technical assistance in geological and
      topographical surveys, and in the design and layout of oil,
      natural gas and mineral ore extraction and transport
      systems, and processing and refining plant for minerals and
      metals;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for mineral, oil and natural
      gas exploration, extraction and transport projects and
      plant, and for processing and mineral refining plant
      according to the specifications given;

(d)   providing technical supervision of the construction,
      installation, operation, maintenance and repair of mineral
      ore, oil and natural gas exploration, extraction, transport
      and storage installations and mineral processing plant to
      ensure satisfactory performance and compliance with
      specifications and regulations;

(e)   applying technical knowledge of mining, of oil and natural
      gas extraction, transport and storage, and of metallurgical
      principles and practices in order to identity and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, engineering/mining
  Technician, metallurgy/extractive

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Machine-operator, drilling/mine - 8111
  Miner - 7111
  Quarrier - 7111

3449  CUSTOMS, TAX, AND RELATED GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS NOT  ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers customs, tax and related government
associate  professionals not classified elsewhere in Minor group
344, Customs, tax and  related government associate
professionals.     For instance, here should be classified those who examine
places of  business to ensure the use of correct weights and
measures in trade and  monitor the application of price or wage
regulations, referring exceptional or  important cases to Senior
government officials or Managers.     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   examining places of business to ensure the use of correct
      weights and measures in trade;

(b)   monitoring price regulations;

(c)   monitoring wage regulations;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:   Inspector, price	
  Inspector, sanitary
  Inspector wage
  Inspector, weights and measures

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Inspector, occupational safety - 31 52
  Inspector, quality/products - 3152

1210  DIRECTORS AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES 
      Directors and chief executives head enterprises or
organisations (except  special interest organisations) and, with
the help of at least two other managers, determine and formulate
policies and plan, direct and  coordinate the general functioning
of the enterprise or organisation usually  within the guidelines
set up by a board of directors or a governing body, to  whom they
are answerable for the operations undertaken and results
obtained.

      Tasks include -

(a)   determining and formulating policies of the enterprise or
      organisation;

(b)   planning, directing and coordinating the general
      functioning of the enterprise or organisation;

(c)   determining and directing a particular policy, through
      consultation with subordinate managers;

(d)   reviewing the operations and results of the enterprise, or
      organisation, and reporting to governing bodies;

(e)   representing the enterprise or organisation in its dealings
      with outside bodies, including government or other
      authorities;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Chief executive, enterprise

Director-general, enterprise

Director-general, organisation

Managing director, enterprise

Managing director, organisation

President, organisation

1141  SENIOR OFFICIALS OF POLITICAL-PARTY ORGANISATIONS 
      Senior officials of political-party organisations determine
and formulate  policies, rules and regulations of political-party
organisations, direct their  application, represent these
organisations and act on their behalf.

      Tasks include -

(a)   determining and formulating the political-party's policies,
      rules and regulations;

(b)   negotiating on behalf of the political party and its
      members;

(c)   planning and organising campaigns, on behalf of the
      political party, for the e lection of its candidates to
      political offices;

(d)   planning and organising campaigns to recruit and educate
      political party members;

(e)   planning, organising and directing sections charged with
      implementing the political-party's policies, rules and
      regulations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Leader, political party

President, political party

Senior official, political party

9132  HELPERS AND CLEANERS IN OFFICES, HOTELS AND OTHER ESTABLISHMENTS
 

     Helpers and cleaners in offices, hotels and other
establishments perform  various cleaning tasks in order to keep
clean and tidy the interiors and  fixtures of hotels, offices and
other establishments, as well as of aircraft,  trains, buses and
similar vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sweeping or vacuum-cleaning, washing and polishing floors,
     furniture and other fixtures in buildings, coaches, buses,
     trams, trains and aircraft;

(b)  making beds, cleaning bathrooms, supplying towels, soap and
     related items;

(c)  cleaning kitchens and generally helping with kitchen work,
     including dishwashing ;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cleaner,  aircraft
  Cleaner, hotel
  Cleaner, office
  Washer, hand/dishes
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Caretaker, building - 9141
  Cleaner, domestic - 9131
  Housekeeper - 5121
  Sweeper, street - 9162

1110  LEGISLATORS 
      Legislators determine, formulate, and direct policies of
national, state,  regional or local governments, and make,
ratify, amend or repeal laws, public  rules and regulations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   presiding over or participating in the proceedings of
      legislative bodies and administrative councils of national,
      state, regional or local governments or legislative
      assemblies;

(b)   determining, formulating, and directing policies of
      national, state, regional or local governments;

(c)   making, ratifying, amending or repealing laws, public rules
      and regulations within the framework of a Constitution
      determining their powers and fields of jurisdiction;

(d)   serving on government administrative boards or official
      committees;

(e)   promoting the interests of the constituencies which they
      represent;

(f)   as members of the government, directing senior
      administrators and officials of government departments and
      agencies in the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Minister, government

President, government

Prime minister

Secretary, government/legislative

Senator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Secretary, government/non legislative - 1120

1210  DIRECTORS AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES 
      Directors and chief executives head enterprises or
organisations (except  special interest organisations) and, with
the help of at least two other managers, determine and formulate
policies and plan, direct and  coordinate the general functioning
of the enterprise or organisation usually  within the guidelines
set up by a board of directors or a governing body, to  whom they
are answerable for the operations undertaken and results
obtained.

      Tasks include -

(a)   determining and formulating policies of the enterprise or
      organisation;

(b)   planning, directing and coordinating the general
      functioning of the enterprise or organisation;

(c)   determining and directing a particular policy, through
      consultation with subordinate managers;

(d)   reviewing the operations and results of the enterprise, or
      organisation, and reporting to governing bodies;

(e)   representing the enterprise or organisation in its dealings
      with outside bodies, including government or other
      authorities;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Chief executive, enterprise

Director-general, enterprise

Director-general, organisation

Managing director, enterprise

Managing director, organisation

President, organisation

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

2460  RELIGIOUS PROFESSIONALS 
      
     Religious professionals function as perpetrators of the
sacred  traditions, practices and beliefs and celebrate or
administer at the rituals  of initiation, preside over ritual
reenactments of creative, redemptive or  salvatory events, and
offer sacrifices to the gods or to one God.

     Tasks include -

(a)   perpetuating sacred traditions, practices and beliefs;

(d)   conducting religious services, rites and ceremonies;

(c)   undertaking various administrative and social duties,
      including a ending committees and meetings of religious
      organisations;

(d)   providing spiritual and moral guidance in accordance with
      the religion professed;

(e)   propagating religious doctrines in own country or abroad;

(f)   preparing religious sermons and preachings;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bonze
  Imam
  Minister, religion
  Monk, professional
  Nun, professional
  Poojari
  Priest
  Rabbi

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Monk, associate professional - 3480
  Nun, associate professional - 3480
  Preacher, lay - 3480

9131  DOMESTIC HELPERS AND CLEANERS
 

     Domestic helpers and cleaners sweep, vacuum clean, wash and
polish, take  care of household linen, purchase household
supplies, prepare food, serve  meals and perform various other
domestic duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sweeping, vacuum-cleaning, polishing and washing floors and
     furniture, or washing windows and other fixtures;

(b)  washing, ironing and mending linen and other textiles;

(c)  washing dishes;

(d)  preparing, cooking and serving meals and refreshments;

(e)  purchasing food and various other household supplies;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Charworker, domestic
  Cleaner, domestic
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cleaner, hotel - 9132
  Housekeeper - 5121
  Launderer, hand - 9133
  Sweeper, street - 9162

9132  HELPERS AND CLEANERS IN OFFICES, HOTELS AND OTHER ESTABLISHMENTS
 

     Helpers and cleaners in offices, hotels and other
establishments perform  various cleaning tasks in order to keep
clean and tidy the interiors and  fixtures of hotels, offices and
other establishments, as well as of aircraft,  trains, buses and
similar vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sweeping or vacuum-cleaning, washing and polishing floors,
     furniture and other fixtures in buildings, coaches, buses,
     trams, trains and aircraft;

(b)  making beds, cleaning bathrooms, supplying towels, soap and
     related items;

(c)  cleaning kitchens and generally helping with kitchen work,
     including dishwashing ;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cleaner,  aircraft
  Cleaner, hotel
  Cleaner, office
  Washer, hand/dishes
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Caretaker, building - 9141
  Cleaner, domestic - 9131
  Housekeeper - 5121
  Sweeper, street - 9162

8322  CAR, TAXI AND VAN DRIVERS
 

     Car, taxi and van drivers drive and tend motor cars and vans
to transport  passengers, mail or goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending passenger cars or taxis ;

(b)  driving and tending cars, vans or small trucks to deliver
     mail or goods;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, car
  Driver, taxi
  Driver, van

5122  COOKS
 
     Cooks plan, organise, prepare and cook foodstuffs in hotels,
restaurants  and other public eating places, on board ships, on
passenger trains and in  private households.

     Tasks include -

(a)  planning meals, preparing and cooking foodstuffs;

(b)  planning, supervising and coordinating work in the kitchen;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Cook
  Cook, head

2113  CHEMISTS 
     Chemists conduct research, improve or develop concepts,
theories and  operational methods, or apply scientific knowledge
relating to chemistry,  mainly to test, develop and improve
materials, and industrial products and  processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods related to chemistry;

(b)   conducting experiments, tests and analyses to investigate
      chemical composition and energy and chemical changes in
      various natural, artificial or synthetic substances,
      materials and products-.

(c)   evaluating results of investigations and experiments and
      deriving conclusions-.

(d)   developing or improving pharmaceutical and other industrial
      materials, products and processes;

(e)   developing quality control procedures for manufacturers or
      users;

(f)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Chemist
  Chemist, pharmaceutical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Biochemist - 2212
  Pharmacist - 2224
  Pharmacologist - 2212

1120  SENIOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS 

      Senior government officials advise governments on policy
matters, oversee the interpretation and implementation of
government policies and legislation  by government departments
and agencies, represent their country abroad and act  on its
behalf, or carry out similar tasks in intergovernmental
organisations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   advising national, state, regional or local governments on
      policy matters;

(b)   advising on the preparation of government budgets, laws and
      regulations, including amendments;

(c)   overseeing the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies and legislation by government
      departments and agencies;

(d)   representing their country abroad;
         
(e)   performing similar tasks in intergovernmental
      organisations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Administrator, government
Administrator, intergovernmental organisation
Ambassador
Consul-general
Secretary, government/non legislative

3141  SHIPS' ENGINEERS 
     Ships' engineers control and participate in the operation,
maintenance  and repair of mechanical, electrical and electronic
equipment and machinery on  board ship, or perform related
supporting functions on shore.

     Tasks include -

(a)   controlling and participating in the operation, maintenance
      and repair of mechanical, electrical and electronic
      equipment and machinery on board ship;

(b)   ordering fuel and other engine-room department stores and
      maintaining record of operations;

(c)   performing technical supervision of the installation,
      maintenance and repair of ship's machinery and equipment
      to ensure compliance with specifications and regulations;

(d)   applying knowledge of principles and practices relating to
      ship's machinery and equipment in order to identify and
      solve problems arising in the course of their work;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
     
  Engineer, ship

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, marine - 2145

1210  DIRECTORS AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES 
      Directors and chief executives head enterprises or
organisations (except  special interest organisations) and, with
the help of at least two other managers, determine and formulate
policies and plan, direct and  coordinate the general functioning
of the enterprise or organisation usually  within the guidelines
set up by a board of directors or a governing body, to  whom they
are answerable for the operations undertaken and results
obtained.

      Tasks include -

(a)   determining and formulating policies of the enterprise or
      organisation;

(b)   planning, directing and coordinating the general
      functioning of the enterprise or organisation;

(c)   determining and directing a particular policy, through
      consultation with subordinate managers;

(d)   reviewing the operations and results of the enterprise, or
      organisation, and reporting to governing bodies;

(e)   representing the enterprise or organisation in its dealings
      with outside bodies, including government or other
      authorities;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Chief executive, enterprise

Director-general, enterprise

Director-general, organisation

Managing director, enterprise

Managing director, organisation

President, organisation

2422  JUDGES 
      
     Judges hear and judge cases in courts of justice, instruct
the jury on  points of law, or pronounce judgement.

     Tasks include -

(a)   hearing and weighing arguments and evidence;

(b)   ruling on questions of procedure;

(c)   determining the rights and obligations of the parties
      involved, and, in cases tried by jury, instructing jury
      members on points of law;

(d)   pronouncing judgement;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Chief justice
  Judge
  Magistrate

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Clerk, court - 3432

5121  HOUSEKEEPERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Housekeepers and related workers organise, supervise and
carry out  housekeeping functions in hotels, clubs, boarding
schools and other  enterprises and institutions and in private
households.

     Tasks include -

(a)  engaging, training, discharging organising and supervising
     workers employed as domestic staff;

(b)  purchasing or controlling the purchase of supplies;

(c)  controlling storage and issue of supplies;

(d)  supervising general welfare and conduct of individuals in
     institutions;

(e)  assisting in cases of minor injury or illness by performing
     tasks such as taking temperature, giving medicine, putting
     on bandages;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Housekeeper
  Matron, housekeeping
  Steward, house

5111  TRAVEL ATTENDANTS AND TRAVEL STEWARDS
 
     Travel attendants and travel stewards render personal
services to ensure  the comfort and safety of passengers, serve
meals and beverages, or plan and  coordinate housekeeping and
social activities on ships.

     Tasks include -

(a)  greeting passengers entering aircraft, conducting them to
     their seats, ensuring that seat-belts are fastened and -no
     smoking" and similar signs are obeyed;

(b)  explaining the use of safety equipment such as life belts
     and oxygen masks;

(c)  distributing reading material, headphones, blankets and
     similar items, and answering passengers' inquiries;

(d)  serving pre-prepared meals as well as beverages;

(e)  selling duty-free goods;

(f)  administering minor medical aid to passengers in need;

(g)  taking appropriate action in case of emergencies or
     accidents;

(h)  taking care of passengers at airports;

(i)  taking care of general needs and comfort of ship's
     passengers, including keeping cabins tidy and serving meals
     in them, on request;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Attendant, airport
  Attendant, flight
  Steward, ship

5121  HOUSEKEEPERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Housekeepers and related workers organise, supervise and
carry out  housekeeping functions in hotels, clubs, boarding
schools and other  enterprises and institutions and in private
households.

     Tasks include -

(a)  engaging, training, discharging organising and supervising
     workers employed as domestic staff;

(b)  purchasing or controlling the purchase of supplies;

(c)  controlling storage and issue of supplies;

(d)  supervising general welfare and conduct of individuals in
     institutions;

(e)  assisting in cases of minor injury or illness by performing
     tasks such as taking temperature, giving medicine, putting
     on bandages;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Housekeeper
  Matron, housekeeping
  Steward, house

5111  TRAVEL ATTENDANTS AND TRAVEL STEWARDS
 
     Travel attendants and travel stewards render personal
services to ensure  the comfort and safety of passengers, serve
meals and beverages, or plan and  coordinate housekeeping and
social activities on ships.

     Tasks include -

(a)  greeting passengers entering aircraft, conducting them to
     their seats, ensuring that seat-belts are fastened and -no
     smoking" and similar signs are obeyed;

(b)  explaining the use of safety equipment such as life belts
     and oxygen masks;

(c)  distributing reading material, headphones, blankets and
     similar items, and answering passengers' inquiries;

(d)  serving pre-prepared meals as well as beverages;

(e)  selling duty-free goods;

(f)  administering minor medical aid to passengers in need;

(g)  taking appropriate action in case of emergencies or
     accidents;

(h)  taking care of passengers at airports;

(i)  taking care of general needs and comfort of ship's
     passengers, including keeping cabins tidy and serving meals
     in them, on request;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Attendant, airport
  Attendant, flight
  Steward, ship

1110  LEGISLATORS 
      Legislators determine, formulate, and direct policies of
national, state,  regional or local governments, and make,
ratify, amend or repeal laws, public  rules and regulations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   presiding over or participating in the proceedings of
      legislative bodies and administrative councils of national,
      state, regional or local governments or legislative
      assemblies;

(b)   determining, formulating, and directing policies of
      national, state, regional or local governments;

(c)   making, ratifying, amending or repealing laws, public rules
      and regulations within the framework of a Constitution
      determining their powers and fields of jurisdiction;

(d)   serving on government administrative boards or official
      committees;

(e)   promoting the interests of the constituencies which they
      represent;

(f)   as members of the government, directing senior
      administrators and officials of government departments and
      agencies in the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Minister, government

President, government

Prime minister

Secretary, government/legislative

Senator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Secretary, government/non legislative - 1120

1130  TRADITIONAL CHIEFS AND HEADS OF VILLAGES 
      Traditional chiefs and heads of villages perform a variety
of legislative, administrative and ceremonial tasks and duties,
determined by  ancient traditions, as well as by the division of
rights and responsibilities  between village chiefs and the
local, regional and national authorities.

      Tasks include -

(a)   allocating the use of communal land and other resources
      among households in the community or village;

(b)   collecting and distributing surplus production of the
      community or village;

(c)   settling disputes between members of the community or
      village;

(d)   disciplining members of the community or village for
      violation of rules and customs;

(e)   performing ceremonial duties in connection with births,
      marriages, deaths, harvests and other traditional feasts;

(f)   representing the community or village on local or regional
      councils;

(g)   being responsible for informing the community or village
      about government rules and regulations;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Chief, village
Head, village

7143  BUILDING STRUCTURE CLEANERS
 

     Building structure cleaners remove soot from chimneys, or
clean exterior  surfaces of buildings and other structures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  removing soot from flues, chimneys and connecting pipes;

(b)  cleaning exterior surfaces of stone, brick, metal or similar
     materials by means of chemicals, of a jet of steam or sand
     applied under great pressure;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Chimney sweep
  Cleaner, building exteriors
  Sandblaster, building exteriors

5141  HAIRDRESSERS, BARBERS, BEAUTICIANS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Hairdressers, barbers, beauticians and related workers cut
and dress  hair, shave and trim beards, give beauty treatment,
apply cosmetics and  make-up and give other kinds of treatment
to individuals in order to improve their appearance.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting, washing, tinting and waving hair;

(b)  cutting and washing hair and shaving or trimming beards;

(c)  giving scalp treatment;

(d)  fitting wigs according to customers' requirements;

(e)  cleaning and applying creams, lotions and related products
     to face and parts of body;

(f)  giving facial and body massage;

(g)  applying make-up to clients of a beauty parlour;

(h)  applying make-up to actors and other performers;

(i)  cleaning, shaping and polishing finger and toe-nails and
     treating minor ailments of the human foot such as corns,
     calluses or deformed toe-nails;

(j)  attending to clients taking baths and administering
     elementary massage;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Attendant, bath
  Barber
  Beautician
  Chiropodist
  Hairdresser
  Manicurist

3226  PHYSIOTHERAPISTS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Physiotherapists and related associate professionals treat
disorders of  bones, muscles and parts of the circulatory or the
nervous system by  manipulative methods, and ultrasound, heating,
laser or similar techniques, or  apply physiotherapy and related
therapies as part of the treatment for the physically disabled,
mentally ill or unbalanced.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising communities and individuals on correct body
      postures, for work or otherwise, to avoid injuries and
      strain and to strengthen muscles;


(b)   conducting examinations to make diagnoses of disorders of
      bones, muscles and parts of the circulatory or the nervous
      system to determine proper treatment or refer to Medical
      doctors, if necessary;

(c)   treating disorders of bones, muscles and parts of the
      circulatory or the nervous system by manipulative methods,
      and the use of ultrasound, heating, laser or similar
      techniques;

(d)   massaging client or patient to improve circulation, soothe
      or stimulate nerves, facilitate elimination of waste
      matter, stretch contracted tendons and produce other
      therapeutic effects;

(e)   examining body deformities and disorders to determine and
      write specifications for artificial limbs or other
      appliances, helping to fit them and explaining their use;

(f)   applying physiotherapy and related techniques as part of
      the treatment of the mentally ill or unbalanced;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Chiropractor
  Physiotherapist
  Podiatrist

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Therapist, occupational - 3229

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

2454  CHOREOGRAPHERS AND DANCERS 
      
     Choreographers and dancers conceive and create or perform
dances.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and creating dances, which often convey a story,
      theme, idea or mood, by a pattern of steps, movements and
      gestures;

(b)   performing dances as a soloist, with a partner or as a
      member of a dancing group;

(c)   performing related tasks;

(d)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Choreographer
  Dancer, ballet

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Dancer, night-club - 3473

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

3131  PHOTOGRAPHERS AND IMAGE AND SOUND RECORDING EQUIPMENT
OPERATORS 
     Photographers and image and sound recording equipment
operators take  photographs, control motion picture and video
cameras and other equipment to  record and edit images and sound.

 
    Tasks include -

(a)   taking photographs for advertising, or other commercial,
      industrial or scientific purposes and to illustrate stories
      and articles in newspapers, magazines and other
      publications;

(b)   taking portrait photographs of persons and groups of
      persons;

(c)   setting and operating motion picture, video, microscopic
      and other specialised cameras, including those for aerial
      photography, to record images;

(d)   controlling equipment to record sound for motion pictures,
      videotapes, gramophone records, audio tapes, digital discs,
      direct broadcasting or other purposes.,

(e)   controlling equipment to edit and mix image and sound
      recordings to ensure satisfactory quality and to create
      special image and sound effects;

(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of image and
      sound recording and editing in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, camera/motion picture
  Operator, recording equipment/sound
  Operator, studio equipment/television
  Photographer

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Mechanic, electronics - 7243
  Photographer, photogravure - 7343
  Photolithographer - 7343
  Repairer, photographic equipment 7311

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

7431  FIBRE PREPARERS
 

     Fibre preparers prepare wool, cotton,flax, jute, hemp and
other natural  textile fibres for spinning and winding.

     Tasks include -

(a)  grading and classifying natural textile fibres;

(b)  washing wool fibres;

(c)  cleaning and fluffing textile fibres;

(d)  forming fibres into sliver, combing them, combining sliver
     into sliver laps or forming sliver into rove;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Comber, fibre/textiles
  Drawer, fibre/textiles
  Rover, fibre/textiles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator combing/textile fibres - 8261

7441  PELT DRESSERS, TANNERS AND FELLMONGERS
 

     Pelt dressers, tanners and fellmongers prepare fur- and
wool-bearing  pelts for making garments and other products, and
make leather from hides and  skins.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sorting and grading pelts, hides and skins;

(b)  removing flesh and fat from pelts before curing;

(c)  removing flesh and hair from hides;

(d)  removing long, coarse hair from pelts and trimming
     underlying hair to even length;

(e)  operating machine to split hides edgeways;

(f)  treating hides to convert them into leather;

(g)  applying dyes to fur pelts;

(h)  dressing and applying dyes and stains to leather;

(i)  stretching and smoothing dressed pelts;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fellmonger
  Grader, pelt
  Tanner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, tanning - 8265

9132  HELPERS AND CLEANERS IN OFFICES, HOTELS AND OTHER ESTABLISHMENTS
 

     Helpers and cleaners in offices, hotels and other
establishments perform  various cleaning tasks in order to keep
clean and tidy the interiors and  fixtures of hotels, offices and
other establishments, as well as of aircraft,  trains, buses and
similar vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sweeping or vacuum-cleaning, washing and polishing floors,
     furniture and other fixtures in buildings, coaches, buses,
     trams, trains and aircraft;

(b)  making beds, cleaning bathrooms, supplying towels, soap and
     related items;

(c)  cleaning kitchens and generally helping with kitchen work,
     including dishwashing ;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cleaner,  aircraft
  Cleaner, hotel
  Cleaner, office
  Washer, hand/dishes
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Caretaker, building - 9141
  Cleaner, domestic - 9131
  Housekeeper - 5121
  Sweeper, street - 9162

7143  BUILDING STRUCTURE CLEANERS
 

     Building structure cleaners remove soot from chimneys, or
clean exterior  surfaces of buildings and other structures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  removing soot from flues, chimneys and connecting pipes;

(b)  cleaning exterior surfaces of stone, brick, metal or similar
     materials by means of chemicals, of a jet of steam or sand
     applied under great pressure;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Chimney sweep
  Cleaner, building exteriors
  Sandblaster, building exteriors

9132  HELPERS AND CLEANERS IN OFFICES, HOTELS AND OTHER ESTABLISHMENTS
 

     Helpers and cleaners in offices, hotels and other
establishments perform  various cleaning tasks in order to keep
clean and tidy the interiors and  fixtures of hotels, offices and
other establishments, as well as of aircraft,  trains, buses and
similar vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sweeping or vacuum-cleaning, washing and polishing floors,
     furniture and other fixtures in buildings, coaches, buses,
     trams, trains and aircraft;

(b)  making beds, cleaning bathrooms, supplying towels, soap and
     related items;

(c)  cleaning kitchens and generally helping with kitchen work,
     including dishwashing ;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cleaner,  aircraft
  Cleaner, hotel
  Cleaner, office
  Washer, hand/dishes
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Caretaker, building - 9141
  Cleaner, domestic - 9131
  Housekeeper - 5121
  Sweeper, street - 9162

7143  BUILDING STRUCTURE CLEANERS
 

     Building structure cleaners remove soot from chimneys, or
clean exterior  surfaces of buildings and other structures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  removing soot from flues, chimneys and connecting pipes;

(b)  cleaning exterior surfaces of stone, brick, metal or similar
     materials by means of chemicals, of a jet of steam or sand
     applied under great pressure;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Chimney sweep
  Cleaner, building exteriors
  Sandblaster, building exteriors

9131  DOMESTIC HELPERS AND CLEANERS
 

     Domestic helpers and cleaners sweep, vacuum clean, wash and
polish, take  care of household linen, purchase household
supplies, prepare food, serve  meals and perform various other
domestic duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sweeping, vacuum-cleaning, polishing and washing floors and
     furniture, or washing windows and other fixtures;

(b)  washing, ironing and mending linen and other textiles;

(c)  washing dishes;

(d)  preparing, cooking and serving meals and refreshments;

(e)  purchasing food and various other household supplies;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Charworker, domestic
  Cleaner, domestic
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cleaner, hotel - 9132
  Housekeeper - 5121
  Launderer, hand - 9133
  Sweeper, street - 9162

9132  HELPERS AND CLEANERS IN OFFICES, HOTELS AND OTHER ESTABLISHMENTS
 

     Helpers and cleaners in offices, hotels and other
establishments perform  various cleaning tasks in order to keep
clean and tidy the interiors and  fixtures of hotels, offices and
other establishments, as well as of aircraft,  trains, buses and
similar vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sweeping or vacuum-cleaning, washing and polishing floors,
     furniture and other fixtures in buildings, coaches, buses,
     trams, trains and aircraft;

(b)  making beds, cleaning bathrooms, supplying towels, soap and
     related items;

(c)  cleaning kitchens and generally helping with kitchen work,
     including dishwashing ;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cleaner,  aircraft
  Cleaner, hotel
  Cleaner, office
  Washer, hand/dishes
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Caretaker, building - 9141
  Cleaner, domestic - 9131
  Housekeeper - 5121
  Sweeper, street - 9162

7224  METAL WHEEL-GRINDERS, POLISHERS AND TOOL SHARPENERS
 

     Metal wheel-grinders, polishers and tool sharpeners grind
and polish  metal surfaces and sharpen tools.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating fixed or portable buffing and polishing machines;

(b)  sharpening cutting tools and instruments using grinding
     wheel or mechanically operated grinding machines;

(c)  repairing, adjusting and sharpening saw blades and metal
     teeth of cylinders in textile carding machines;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Finisher, metal
  Grinder, tool
  Polisher, metal
  Sharpener, knife
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal - 8223
  Machine-operator polishing/metal -8223

9132  HELPERS AND CLEANERS IN OFFICES, HOTELS AND OTHER ESTABLISHMENTS
 

     Helpers and cleaners in offices, hotels and other
establishments perform  various cleaning tasks in order to keep
clean and tidy the interiors and  fixtures of hotels, offices and
other establishments, as well as of aircraft,  trains, buses and
similar vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sweeping or vacuum-cleaning, washing and polishing floors,
     furniture and other fixtures in buildings, coaches, buses,
     trams, trains and aircraft;

(b)  making beds, cleaning bathrooms, supplying towels, soap and
     related items;

(c)  cleaning kitchens and generally helping with kitchen work,
     including dishwashing ;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cleaner,  aircraft
  Cleaner, hotel
  Cleaner, office
  Washer, hand/dishes
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Caretaker, building - 9141
  Cleaner, domestic - 9131
  Housekeeper - 5121
  Sweeper, street - 9162

9142  VEHICLE, WINDOW AND RELATED CLEANERS
 

     Vehicle, window and related cleaners clean windows,
showcases or other  glass surfaces of buildings, or vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cleaning, washing and polishing cars and other vehicles, by
     hand or machine;

(b)  washing  windows or other glass surfaces  with  water  or 
     various solutions, drying and polishing them;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cleaner, window
  Washer, hand/vehicle

3112  CIVIL ENGINEERING TECHNICIANS 

     Civil engineering technicians perform technical tasks
connected with  civil engineering research, as well as with the
design, construction,  operation, maintenance and repair of
buildings and other structures, such as  water supply and sewage
systems, bridges, roads, dams and airports.

     Tasks include -

(a)   performing or helping with field and laboratory tests of
      soils and construction materials;

(b)   providing technical assistance connected with the
      construction of buildings and other structures, and with
      surveys or the preparation of survey reports;

(c)   representing building architects and civil engineers on
      construction sites to ensure compliance with design
      specifications and maintenance of desired standards of
      materials and work;

(d)   applying technical knowledge of building and civil
      engineering principles and practices in order to identify
      and solve problems arising in the course of their work;

(e)   assisting with the preparation of detailed estimates of
      quantities and costs of materials and labour required for
      projects, according to the specifications given;

(f)   organising maintenance and repairs;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Clerk of works
  Technician, engineering/civil
  Technician, surveying

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Surveyor, marine - 3115
  Surveyor, quantity - 2149

4114  CALCULATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 
     Calculating-machine operators operate bookkeeping and
calculating  machines.
     Tasks include -

(a)  operating bookkeeping machines to make records of business
     transactions;
(b)  operating electrical or manual machines to make arithmetical
     calculations;
(c)  performing related tasks;
(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, accounting machine
  Clerk, adding machine
  Clerk, bookkeeping machine
  Clerk, calculating machine

4121  ACCOUNTING AND BOOK-KEEPING CLERKS
 
     Accounting and bookkeeping clerks help with accounting and
bookkeeping  records and computations, wages and production costs
computations as well as  with cash payments.
     Tasks include -

(a)  making entries in accounting and bookkeeping records;
(b)  making necessary calculations;
(c)  performing other limited accounting and bookkeeping
     functions;
(d)  calculating from existing records production costs per unit;
(e)  calculating wages due from records of hours worked, or work
     performed by individual employees;
(f)  taking charge of cash and keeping records of cash
     transactions incidental to the business; may prepare wage
     packets and pay wages;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations included here:
   Clerk, accounts
  Clerk, bookkeeping
  Clerk, cost computing
  Clerk, wages

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Assistant, accounting - 3434
  Bookkeeper - 3433

4122  STATISTICAL AND FINANCE CLERKS
 
     Statistical and finance clerks obtain, compile and compute
statistical or  actuarial data or perform clerical tasks relating
to the transactions of a  bank and other financial
establishments.
     Tasks include -

(a)  obtaining and compiling statistical or actuarial data based
     on routine or special sources of information;

(b)  calculating totals, averages, percentages and other details
     and presenting them in the required tabular form;

(c)  preparing financial documents, and calculating interest or
     brokerage charges and stamp duties payable;
(d)  maintaining records of bonds, shares and other securities
     bought or sold on behalf of clients or employer;
(e)  performing related tasks;
(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, actuarial
  Clerk, brokerage
  Clerk, finance
  Clerk, securities
  Clerk, statistical
  Clerk, tax

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Assistant, statistical - 3434
  Broker, stocks and shares - 3411
  Broker, trade - 3421

4114  CALCULATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 
     Calculating-machine operators operate bookkeeping and
calculating  machines.
     Tasks include -

(a)  operating bookkeeping machines to make records of business
     transactions;
(b)  operating electrical or manual machines to make arithmetical
     calculations;
(c)  performing related tasks;
(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, accounting machine
  Clerk, adding machine
  Clerk, bookkeeping machine
  Clerk, calculating machine

4190  OTHER OFFICE CLERKS
 
     Other office clerks perform a wide range of general clerical
duties  mostly connected with the keeping of various office
records.
     Tasks include -

(a)  keeping personnel records of all the organisation's
     employees, showing name, address, and other details;
(b)  keeping personnel records of employees' leave and other
     information;
(c)  preparing and maintaining the organisation's address and
     telephone lists;
(d)  preparing and maintaining the organisation's mailing lists;
(e)  performing related tasks;
(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, compilation/directory
  Clerk, list/addresses
  Clerk, records/personnel

4122  STATISTICAL AND FINANCE CLERKS
 
     Statistical and finance clerks obtain, compile and compute
statistical or  actuarial data or perform clerical tasks relating
to the transactions of a  bank and other financial
establishments.
     Tasks include -

(a)  obtaining and compiling statistical or actuarial data based
     on routine or special sources of information;

(b)  calculating totals, averages, percentages and other details
     and presenting them in the required tabular form;

(c)  preparing financial documents, and calculating interest or
     brokerage charges and stamp duties payable;
(d)  maintaining records of bonds, shares and other securities
     bought or sold on behalf of clients or employer;
(e)  performing related tasks;
(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, actuarial
  Clerk, brokerage
  Clerk, finance
  Clerk, securities
  Clerk, statistical
  Clerk, tax

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Assistant, statistical - 3434
  Broker, stocks and shares - 3411
  Broker, trade - 3421

4133  TRANSPORT CLERKS
 
     Transport clerks keep records of operational aspects and
coordinate the  timing of train, road and air passenger and
freight transport, and prepare  reports for management.
     Tasks include -

(a)  keeping records of operational aspects, and coordinating the
     timing of passenger and freight transport;

(b)  directing train routings within a division or zone of a
     railway system and keeping related records;
(c)  directing, controlling and keeping records of freight
     handling at a railway yard;
(d)  coordinating and keeping records of operational activities
     concerning road transport, such as allocation and scheduling
     of vehicles and drivers, loading and unloading of vehicles
     and storage of goods in transit;
(e)  coordinating and keeping records of operational activities
     concerning air transport of passengers and freight, such as
     passenger lists and freight manifests;
(f)  preparing reports for management;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Controller, clerical/air transport service
  Controller, clerical/railway service
  Controller, clerical/road transport service
  Dispatcher, clerical/boat
  Dispatcher, clerical/bus
  Dispatcher, clerical/train
  Dispatcher, clerical/truck

4222  RECEPTIONISTS AND INFORMATION CLERKS
 
     Receptionists and information clerks receive clients or
patients, provide  information and make appointments on behalf
of various establishments  including hospitals, medical or dental
surgeries.
     Tasks include -

(a)  receiving clients or patients, noting inquiries and
     providing relevant information:
(b)  making appointments for clients or patients;
(c)  dealing with telephone requests for information or
     appointments;
(d)  directing clients or patients to appropriate location or
     person;
(e)  making reservations and arranging registration for hotel
     guests or patients, as well as keeping records, or
     presenting bills on departure;
(f)  supplying information pamphlets, brochures or forms;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, information
  Receptionist
  Receptionist, dental
  Receptionist, hotel
  Receptionist, medical

4121  ACCOUNTING AND BOOK-KEEPING CLERKS
 
     Accounting and bookkeeping clerks help with accounting and
bookkeeping  records and computations, wages and production costs
computations as well as  with cash payments.
     Tasks include -

(a)  making entries in accounting and bookkeeping records;
(b)  making necessary calculations;
(c)  performing other limited accounting and bookkeeping
     functions;
(d)  calculating from existing records production costs per unit;
(e)  calculating wages due from records of hours worked, or work
     performed by individual employees;
(f)  taking charge of cash and keeping records of cash
     transactions incidental to the business; may prepare wage
     packets and pay wages;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations included here:
   Clerk, accounts
  Clerk, bookkeeping
  Clerk, cost computing
  Clerk, wages

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Assistant, accounting - 3434
  Bookkeeper - 3433

4215  DEBT-COLLECTORS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Debt-collectors and related workers collect payments and
perform clerical  duties associated with these collections.
     Tasks include -

(a)  telephoning or writing to customers to collect money or
     arrange for later payments;
(b)  tracing addresses of customers and paying visits to collect
     debts;
(c)  noting amounts collected;
(d)  recommending legal action when payment cannot be otherwise
     obtained;
(e)  asking for and collecting charity payments;
(f)  performing related tasks;
(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Collector, charity
  Collector, debt

4122  STATISTICAL AND FINANCE CLERKS
 
     Statistical and finance clerks obtain, compile and compute
statistical or  actuarial data or perform clerical tasks relating
to the transactions of a  bank and other financial
establishments.
     Tasks include -

(a)  obtaining and compiling statistical or actuarial data based
     on routine or special sources of information;

(b)  calculating totals, averages, percentages and other details
     and presenting them in the required tabular form;

(c)  preparing financial documents, and calculating interest or
     brokerage charges and stamp duties payable;
(d)  maintaining records of bonds, shares and other securities
     bought or sold on behalf of clients or employer;
(e)  performing related tasks;
(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, actuarial
  Clerk, brokerage
  Clerk, finance
  Clerk, securities
  Clerk, statistical
  Clerk, tax

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Assistant, statistical - 3434
  Broker, stocks and shares - 3411
  Broker, trade - 3421

4141  LIBRARY AND FILING CLERKS
 
     Library and filing clerks maintain library services or
perform duties  related to the filing and classification of
records.
     Tasks include -
     
(a)  maintaining library records relating to the acquisition,
     issue and return of books and other publications;
(b)  photocopying or reproducing documents and other records;
(c)  classifying and systematically filing papers, documents and
     other records;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, filing
  Clerk, library

4121  ACCOUNTING AND BOOK-KEEPING CLERKS
 
     Accounting and bookkeeping clerks help with accounting and
bookkeeping  records and computations, wages and production costs
computations as well as  with cash payments.
     Tasks include -

(a)  making entries in accounting and bookkeeping records;
(b)  making necessary calculations;
(c)  performing other limited accounting and bookkeeping
     functions;
(d)  calculating from existing records production costs per unit;
(e)  calculating wages due from records of hours worked, or work
     performed by individual employees;
(f)  taking charge of cash and keeping records of cash
     transactions incidental to the business; may prepare wage
     packets and pay wages;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations included here:
   Clerk, accounts
  Clerk, bookkeeping
  Clerk, cost computing
  Clerk, wages

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Assistant, accounting - 3434
  Bookkeeper - 3433

4114  CALCULATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 
     Calculating-machine operators operate bookkeeping and
calculating  machines.
     Tasks include -

(a)  operating bookkeeping machines to make records of business
     transactions;
(b)  operating electrical or manual machines to make arithmetical
     calculations;
(c)  performing related tasks;
(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, accounting machine
  Clerk, adding machine
  Clerk, bookkeeping machine
  Clerk, calculating machine

4121  ACCOUNTING AND BOOK-KEEPING CLERKS
 
     Accounting and bookkeeping clerks help with accounting and
bookkeeping  records and computations, wages and production costs
computations as well as  with cash payments.
     Tasks include -

(a)  making entries in accounting and bookkeeping records;
(b)  making necessary calculations;
(c)  performing other limited accounting and bookkeeping
     functions;
(d)  calculating from existing records production costs per unit;
(e)  calculating wages due from records of hours worked, or work
     performed by individual employees;
(f)  taking charge of cash and keeping records of cash
     transactions incidental to the business; may prepare wage
     packets and pay wages;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations included here:
   Clerk, accounts
  Clerk, bookkeeping
  Clerk, cost computing
  Clerk, wages

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Assistant, accounting - 3434
  Bookkeeper - 3433

4211  CASHIERS AND TICKET CLERKS
 
     Cashiers and ticket clerks receive, directly from clients,
payments for  goods or services bought in establishments such as
stores and ticket offices,  or they pay out cash in banks and
related organisations.
     Tasks include -
(a)  receiving and verifying cash, cheque or credit-card payments
     in stores, ticket offices, or similar establishments;
(b)  giving change and issuing receipts;
(c)  issuing tickets at ticket offices, and taking corresponding
     payments;
(d)  paying out cash, mostly in banks, against written orders,
     credit notes, or resulting from currency exchanges, and
     obtaining receipts;
(e)  keeping records and reconciling them with cash balance;
(f)  receiving incoming cash of an establishment, checking it
     against sales slips and other documents, and preparing it
     for deposit at bank;
(g)  paying out wages to establishments' personnel;
(h)  operating cash register;
(i)  performing related tasks;
(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Cashier,bank 
  Cashier, store
  Clerk, ticket issuing/except travel

4122  STATISTICAL AND FINANCE CLERKS
 
     Statistical and finance clerks obtain, compile and compute
statistical or  actuarial data or perform clerical tasks relating
to the transactions of a  bank and other financial
establishments.
     Tasks include -

(a)  obtaining and compiling statistical or actuarial data based
     on routine or special sources of information;

(b)  calculating totals, averages, percentages and other details
     and presenting them in the required tabular form;

(c)  preparing financial documents, and calculating interest or
     brokerage charges and stamp duties payable;
(d)  maintaining records of bonds, shares and other securities
     bought or sold on behalf of clients or employer;
(e)  performing related tasks;
(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, actuarial
  Clerk, brokerage
  Clerk, finance
  Clerk, securities
  Clerk, statistical
  Clerk, tax

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Assistant, statistical - 3434
  Broker, stocks and shares - 3411
  Broker, trade - 3421

4114  CALCULATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 
     Calculating-machine operators operate bookkeeping and
calculating  machines.
     Tasks include -

(a)  operating bookkeeping machines to make records of business
     transactions;
(b)  operating electrical or manual machines to make arithmetical
     calculations;
(c)  performing related tasks;
(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, accounting machine
  Clerk, adding machine
  Clerk, bookkeeping machine
  Clerk, calculating machine

4211  CASHIERS AND TICKET CLERKS
 
     Cashiers and ticket clerks receive, directly from clients,
payments for  goods or services bought in establishments such as
stores and ticket offices,  or they pay out cash in banks and
related organisations.
     Tasks include -
(a)  receiving and verifying cash, cheque or credit-card payments
     in stores, ticket offices, or similar establishments;
(b)  giving change and issuing receipts;
(c)  issuing tickets at ticket offices, and taking corresponding
     payments;
(d)  paying out cash, mostly in banks, against written orders,
     credit notes, or resulting from currency exchanges, and
     obtaining receipts;
(e)  keeping records and reconciling them with cash balance;
(f)  receiving incoming cash of an establishment, checking it
     against sales slips and other documents, and preparing it
     for deposit at bank;
(g)  paying out wages to establishments' personnel;
(h)  operating cash register;
(i)  performing related tasks;
(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Cashier,bank 
  Cashier, store
  Clerk, ticket issuing/except travel

4141  LIBRARY AND FILING CLERKS
 
     Library and filing clerks maintain library services or
perform duties  related to the filing and classification of
records.
     Tasks include -
     
(a)  maintaining library records relating to the acquisition,
     issue and return of books and other publications;
(b)  photocopying or reproducing documents and other records;
(c)  classifying and systematically filing papers, documents and
     other records;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, filing
  Clerk, library

4143  CODING, PROOF-READING, AND RELATED CLERKS
 
     Coding, proof-reading, and related clerks convert
information into codes,  verify and correct proofs, and perform
a number of miscellaneous clerical  duties.
     Tasks include -

(a)  converting information into codes and classifying
     information by codes for data-processing purposes;
(b)  comparing proofs of texts and related material prepared for
     printing with original material, correcting errors and
     marking texts for printer according to the established
     rules;
(c)  sorting forms and marking them with identification numbers;
(d)  sorting documents for filing or to collate sets of pages;
(e)  addressing circulars and envelopes by hand;
(f)  performing related tasks;
(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, coding
  Proof-reader, clerical

4122  STATISTICAL AND FINANCE CLERKS
 
     Statistical and finance clerks obtain, compile and compute
statistical or  actuarial data or perform clerical tasks relating
to the transactions of a  bank and other financial
establishments.
     Tasks include -

(a)  obtaining and compiling statistical or actuarial data based
     on routine or special sources of information;

(b)  calculating totals, averages, percentages and other details
     and presenting them in the required tabular form;

(c)  preparing financial documents, and calculating interest or
     brokerage charges and stamp duties payable;
(d)  maintaining records of bonds, shares and other securities
     bought or sold on behalf of clients or employer;
(e)  performing related tasks;
(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, actuarial
  Clerk, brokerage
  Clerk, finance
  Clerk, securities
  Clerk, statistical
  Clerk, tax

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Assistant, statistical - 3434
  Broker, stocks and shares - 3411
  Broker, trade - 3421

4190  OTHER OFFICE CLERKS
 
     Other office clerks perform a wide range of general clerical
duties  mostly connected with the keeping of various office
records.
     Tasks include -

(a)  keeping personnel records of all the organisation's
     employees, showing name, address, and other details;
(b)  keeping personnel records of employees' leave and other
     information;
(c)  preparing and maintaining the organisation's address and
     telephone lists;
(d)  preparing and maintaining the organisation's mailing lists;
(e)  performing related tasks;
(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, compilation/directory
  Clerk, list/addresses
  Clerk, records/personnel

4114  CALCULATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 
     Calculating-machine operators operate bookkeeping and
calculating  machines.
     Tasks include -

(a)  operating bookkeeping machines to make records of business
     transactions;
(b)  operating electrical or manual machines to make arithmetical
     calculations;
(c)  performing related tasks;
(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, accounting machine
  Clerk, adding machine
  Clerk, bookkeeping machine
  Clerk, calculating machine

3432  LEGAL AND RELATED BUSINESS ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Legal and related business associate professionals assist
Corporate  managers, General managers, and Legal Professionals,
as well as various  business professionals in connection with
legal matters, including those  related to insurance contracts,
granting of loans and other financial  transactions.     Tasks include -

(a)   examining, or making arrangements for examining, legal
      records and other relevant documents;

(b)   preparing papers summarising legal positions, or setting
      out conditions of loans or insurance;

(c)   advising clients and agents on legal or technical matters
      relating to their particular cases;

(d)   preparing documents relating to transfer of real estate,
      stocks or other matters requiring formal registration;

(e)   checking validity of documents and forwarding them to
      company's share register;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Bailiff
  Clerk, conveyancing
  Clerk, court
  clerk, judge's
  Clerk, law

4121  ACCOUNTING AND BOOK-KEEPING CLERKS
 
     Accounting and bookkeeping clerks help with accounting and
bookkeeping  records and computations, wages and production costs
computations as well as  with cash payments.
     Tasks include -

(a)  making entries in accounting and bookkeeping records;
(b)  making necessary calculations;
(c)  performing other limited accounting and bookkeeping
     functions;
(d)  calculating from existing records production costs per unit;
(e)  calculating wages due from records of hours worked, or work
     performed by individual employees;
(f)  taking charge of cash and keeping records of cash
     transactions incidental to the business; may prepare wage
     packets and pay wages;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations included here:
   Clerk, accounts
  Clerk, bookkeeping
  Clerk, cost computing
  Clerk, wages

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Assistant, accounting - 3434
  Bookkeeper - 3433

3432  LEGAL AND RELATED BUSINESS ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Legal and related business associate professionals assist
Corporate  managers, General managers, and Legal Professionals,
as well as various  business professionals in connection with
legal matters, including those  related to insurance contracts,
granting of loans and other financial  transactions.     Tasks include -

(a)   examining, or making arrangements for examining, legal
      records and other relevant documents;

(b)   preparing papers summarising legal positions, or setting
      out conditions of loans or insurance;

(c)   advising clients and agents on legal or technical matters
      relating to their particular cases;

(d)   preparing documents relating to transfer of real estate,
      stocks or other matters requiring formal registration;

(e)   checking validity of documents and forwarding them to
      company's share register;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Bailiff
  Clerk, conveyancing
  Clerk, court
  clerk, judge's
  Clerk, law

4122  STATISTICAL AND FINANCE CLERKS
 
     Statistical and finance clerks obtain, compile and compute
statistical or  actuarial data or perform clerical tasks relating
to the transactions of a  bank and other financial
establishments.
     Tasks include -

(a)  obtaining and compiling statistical or actuarial data based
     on routine or special sources of information;

(b)  calculating totals, averages, percentages and other details
     and presenting them in the required tabular form;

(c)  preparing financial documents, and calculating interest or
     brokerage charges and stamp duties payable;
(d)  maintaining records of bonds, shares and other securities
     bought or sold on behalf of clients or employer;
(e)  performing related tasks;
(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, actuarial
  Clerk, brokerage
  Clerk, finance
  Clerk, securities
  Clerk, statistical
  Clerk, tax

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Assistant, statistical - 3434
  Broker, stocks and shares - 3411
  Broker, trade - 3421

4113  DATA ENTRY OPERATORS
 
     Data entry operators enter numerical and other data into
electronic  equipment for processing and transmission, or enter
data on cards and tapes,  using punching machines.
     Tasks include -

(a)  entering numerical and other data from source material into 
     computer-compatible storage and processing devices;
(b)  entering data from source material in the form of
     perforations on, cards or paper tapes;
(c)  correcting entered data, if needed;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:
   Clerk, data entry/computer
  Clerk, data entry/converter (card-to-tape)
  Clerk, data entry/electronic mail
  Clerk, data entry/punching machine (card and tape)

4131  STOCK CLERKS
 
     Stock clerks maintain records of goods produced and
production materials  received, weighed, issued, dispatched or
put into stock.
     Tasks include -
     
(a)  arranging and controlling receipt and dispatch of goods and
     keeping relevant records;
(b)  maintaining stock records, verifying issue of goods,
     estimating needs and making requisitions of new stocks;
(c)  receiving, storing and issuing tools, spare parts, or
     various equipment and maintaining relevant records;
(d)  weighing goods received, issued, produced, or dispatched and
     maintaining relevant records;
(e)  compiling inventories of furniture and other items received
     for storage;
(f)  performing related tasks; 
(g) supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, freight/dispatching
  Clerk, freight/receiving
  Clerk, stock/records
  Clerk, stock/storeroom
  Clerk, weighing

4133  TRANSPORT CLERKS
 
     Transport clerks keep records of operational aspects and
coordinate the  timing of train, road and air passenger and
freight transport, and prepare  reports for management.
     Tasks include -

(a)  keeping records of operational aspects, and coordinating the
     timing of passenger and freight transport;

(b)  directing train routings within a division or zone of a
     railway system and keeping related records;
(c)  directing, controlling and keeping records of freight
     handling at a railway yard;
(d)  coordinating and keeping records of operational activities
     concerning road transport, such as allocation and scheduling
     of vehicles and drivers, loading and unloading of vehicles
     and storage of goods in transit;
(e)  coordinating and keeping records of operational activities
     concerning air transport of passengers and freight, such as
     passenger lists and freight manifests;
(f)  preparing reports for management;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Controller, clerical/air transport service
  Controller, clerical/railway service
  Controller, clerical/road transport service
  Dispatcher, clerical/boat
  Dispatcher, clerical/bus
  Dispatcher, clerical/train
  Dispatcher, clerical/truck

4141  LIBRARY AND FILING CLERKS
 
     Library and filing clerks maintain library services or
perform duties  related to the filing and classification of
records.
     Tasks include -
     
(a)  maintaining library records relating to the acquisition,
     issue and return of books and other publications;
(b)  photocopying or reproducing documents and other records;
(c)  classifying and systematically filing papers, documents and
     other records;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, filing
  Clerk, library

4143  CODING, PROOF-READING, AND RELATED CLERKS
 
     Coding, proof-reading, and related clerks convert
information into codes,  verify and correct proofs, and perform
a number of miscellaneous clerical  duties.
     Tasks include -

(a)  converting information into codes and classifying
     information by codes for data-processing purposes;
(b)  comparing proofs of texts and related material prepared for
     printing with original material, correcting errors and
     marking texts for printer according to the established
     rules;
(c)  sorting forms and marking them with identification numbers;
(d)  sorting documents for filing or to collate sets of pages;
(e)  addressing circulars and envelopes by hand;
(f)  performing related tasks;
(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, coding
  Proof-reader, clerical

4121  ACCOUNTING AND BOOK-KEEPING CLERKS
 
     Accounting and bookkeeping clerks help with accounting and
bookkeeping  records and computations, wages and production costs
computations as well as  with cash payments.
     Tasks include -

(a)  making entries in accounting and bookkeeping records;
(b)  making necessary calculations;
(c)  performing other limited accounting and bookkeeping
     functions;
(d)  calculating from existing records production costs per unit;
(e)  calculating wages due from records of hours worked, or work
     performed by individual employees;
(f)  taking charge of cash and keeping records of cash
     transactions incidental to the business; may prepare wage
     packets and pay wages;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations included here:
   Clerk, accounts
  Clerk, bookkeeping
  Clerk, cost computing
  Clerk, wages

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Assistant, accounting - 3434
  Bookkeeper - 3433

4141  LIBRARY AND FILING CLERKS
 
     Library and filing clerks maintain library services or
perform duties  related to the filing and classification of
records.
     Tasks include -
     
(a)  maintaining library records relating to the acquisition,
     issue and return of books and other publications;
(b)  photocopying or reproducing documents and other records;
(c)  classifying and systematically filing papers, documents and
     other records;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, filing
  Clerk, library

4122  STATISTICAL AND FINANCE CLERKS
 
     Statistical and finance clerks obtain, compile and compute
statistical or  actuarial data or perform clerical tasks relating
to the transactions of a  bank and other financial
establishments.
     Tasks include -

(a)  obtaining and compiling statistical or actuarial data based
     on routine or special sources of information;

(b)  calculating totals, averages, percentages and other details
     and presenting them in the required tabular form;

(c)  preparing financial documents, and calculating interest or
     brokerage charges and stamp duties payable;
(d)  maintaining records of bonds, shares and other securities
     bought or sold on behalf of clients or employer;
(e)  performing related tasks;
(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, actuarial
  Clerk, brokerage
  Clerk, finance
  Clerk, securities
  Clerk, statistical
  Clerk, tax

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Assistant, statistical - 3434
  Broker, stocks and shares - 3411
  Broker, trade - 3421

4133  TRANSPORT CLERKS
 
     Transport clerks keep records of operational aspects and
coordinate the  timing of train, road and air passenger and
freight transport, and prepare  reports for management.
     Tasks include -

(a)  keeping records of operational aspects, and coordinating the
     timing of passenger and freight transport;

(b)  directing train routings within a division or zone of a
     railway system and keeping related records;
(c)  directing, controlling and keeping records of freight
     handling at a railway yard;
(d)  coordinating and keeping records of operational activities
     concerning road transport, such as allocation and scheduling
     of vehicles and drivers, loading and unloading of vehicles
     and storage of goods in transit;
(e)  coordinating and keeping records of operational activities
     concerning air transport of passengers and freight, such as
     passenger lists and freight manifests;
(f)  preparing reports for management;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Controller, clerical/air transport service
  Controller, clerical/railway service
  Controller, clerical/road transport service
  Dispatcher, clerical/boat
  Dispatcher, clerical/bus
  Dispatcher, clerical/train
  Dispatcher, clerical/truck

4144  SCRIBES AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Scribes and related workers write letters and complete forms
on behalf of  illiterate persons.
     Tasks include -

(a)  reading letters and other written matter to illiterate
     persons and providing necessary interpretation and
     information;
(b)  writing letters and completing forms on behalf of illiterate
     persons;
(c)  offering advice to individuals and interpreting and helping
     with the completion of government and other official forms;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Scribe

4143  CODING, PROOF-READING, AND RELATED CLERKS
 
     Coding, proof-reading, and related clerks convert
information into codes,  verify and correct proofs, and perform
a number of miscellaneous clerical  duties.
     Tasks include -

(a)  converting information into codes and classifying
     information by codes for data-processing purposes;
(b)  comparing proofs of texts and related material prepared for
     printing with original material, correcting errors and
     marking texts for printer according to the established
     rules;
(c)  sorting forms and marking them with identification numbers;
(d)  sorting documents for filing or to collate sets of pages;
(e)  addressing circulars and envelopes by hand;
(f)  performing related tasks;
(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, coding
  Proof-reader, clerical

4131  STOCK CLERKS
 
     Stock clerks maintain records of goods produced and
production materials  received, weighed, issued, dispatched or
put into stock.
     Tasks include -
     
(a)  arranging and controlling receipt and dispatch of goods and
     keeping relevant records;
(b)  maintaining stock records, verifying issue of goods,
     estimating needs and making requisitions of new stocks;
(c)  receiving, storing and issuing tools, spare parts, or
     various equipment and maintaining relevant records;
(d)  weighing goods received, issued, produced, or dispatched and
     maintaining relevant records;
(e)  compiling inventories of furniture and other items received
     for storage;
(f)  performing related tasks; 
(g) supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, freight/dispatching
  Clerk, freight/receiving
  Clerk, stock/records
  Clerk, stock/storeroom
  Clerk, weighing

4133  TRANSPORT CLERKS
 
     Transport clerks keep records of operational aspects and
coordinate the  timing of train, road and air passenger and
freight transport, and prepare  reports for management.
     Tasks include -

(a)  keeping records of operational aspects, and coordinating the
     timing of passenger and freight transport;

(b)  directing train routings within a division or zone of a
     railway system and keeping related records;
(c)  directing, controlling and keeping records of freight
     handling at a railway yard;
(d)  coordinating and keeping records of operational activities
     concerning road transport, such as allocation and scheduling
     of vehicles and drivers, loading and unloading of vehicles
     and storage of goods in transit;
(e)  coordinating and keeping records of operational activities
     concerning air transport of passengers and freight, such as
     passenger lists and freight manifests;
(f)  preparing reports for management;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Controller, clerical/air transport service
  Controller, clerical/railway service
  Controller, clerical/road transport service
  Dispatcher, clerical/boat
  Dispatcher, clerical/bus
  Dispatcher, clerical/train
  Dispatcher, clerical/truck

4141  LIBRARY AND FILING CLERKS
 
     Library and filing clerks maintain library services or
perform duties  related to the filing and classification of
records.
     Tasks include -
     
(a)  maintaining library records relating to the acquisition,
     issue and return of books and other publications;
(b)  photocopying or reproducing documents and other records;
(c)  classifying and systematically filing papers, documents and
     other records;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, filing
  Clerk, library

4222  RECEPTIONISTS AND INFORMATION CLERKS
 
     Receptionists and information clerks receive clients or
patients, provide  information and make appointments on behalf
of various establishments  including hospitals, medical or dental
surgeries.
     Tasks include -

(a)  receiving clients or patients, noting inquiries and
     providing relevant information:
(b)  making appointments for clients or patients;
(c)  dealing with telephone requests for information or
     appointments;
(d)  directing clients or patients to appropriate location or
     person;
(e)  making reservations and arranging registration for hotel
     guests or patients, as well as keeping records, or
     presenting bills on departure;
(f)  supplying information pamphlets, brochures or forms;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, information
  Receptionist
  Receptionist, dental
  Receptionist, hotel
  Receptionist, medical

3432  LEGAL AND RELATED BUSINESS ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Legal and related business associate professionals assist
Corporate  managers, General managers, and Legal Professionals,
as well as various  business professionals in connection with
legal matters, including those  related to insurance contracts,
granting of loans and other financial  transactions.     Tasks include -

(a)   examining, or making arrangements for examining, legal
      records and other relevant documents;

(b)   preparing papers summarising legal positions, or setting
      out conditions of loans or insurance;

(c)   advising clients and agents on legal or technical matters
      relating to their particular cases;

(d)   preparing documents relating to transfer of real estate,
      stocks or other matters requiring formal registration;

(e)   checking validity of documents and forwarding them to
      company's share register;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Bailiff
  Clerk, conveyancing
  Clerk, court
  clerk, judge's
  Clerk, law

4122  STATISTICAL AND FINANCE CLERKS
 
     Statistical and finance clerks obtain, compile and compute
statistical or  actuarial data or perform clerical tasks relating
to the transactions of a  bank and other financial
establishments.
     Tasks include -

(a)  obtaining and compiling statistical or actuarial data based
     on routine or special sources of information;

(b)  calculating totals, averages, percentages and other details
     and presenting them in the required tabular form;

(c)  preparing financial documents, and calculating interest or
     brokerage charges and stamp duties payable;
(d)  maintaining records of bonds, shares and other securities
     bought or sold on behalf of clients or employer;
(e)  performing related tasks;
(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, actuarial
  Clerk, brokerage
  Clerk, finance
  Clerk, securities
  Clerk, statistical
  Clerk, tax

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Assistant, statistical - 3434
  Broker, stocks and shares - 3411
  Broker, trade - 3421

4121  ACCOUNTING AND BOOK-KEEPING CLERKS
 
     Accounting and bookkeeping clerks help with accounting and
bookkeeping  records and computations, wages and production costs
computations as well as  with cash payments.
     Tasks include -

(a)  making entries in accounting and bookkeeping records;
(b)  making necessary calculations;
(c)  performing other limited accounting and bookkeeping
     functions;
(d)  calculating from existing records production costs per unit;
(e)  calculating wages due from records of hours worked, or work
     performed by individual employees;
(f)  taking charge of cash and keeping records of cash
     transactions incidental to the business; may prepare wage
     packets and pay wages;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations included here:
   Clerk, accounts
  Clerk, bookkeeping
  Clerk, cost computing
  Clerk, wages

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Assistant, accounting - 3434
  Bookkeeper - 3433

4114  CALCULATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 
     Calculating-machine operators operate bookkeeping and
calculating  machines.
     Tasks include -

(a)  operating bookkeeping machines to make records of business
     transactions;
(b)  operating electrical or manual machines to make arithmetical
     calculations;
(c)  performing related tasks;
(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, accounting machine
  Clerk, adding machine
  Clerk, bookkeeping machine
  Clerk, calculating machine

3432  LEGAL AND RELATED BUSINESS ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Legal and related business associate professionals assist
Corporate  managers, General managers, and Legal Professionals,
as well as various  business professionals in connection with
legal matters, including those  related to insurance contracts,
granting of loans and other financial  transactions.     Tasks include -

(a)   examining, or making arrangements for examining, legal
      records and other relevant documents;

(b)   preparing papers summarising legal positions, or setting
      out conditions of loans or insurance;

(c)   advising clients and agents on legal or technical matters
      relating to their particular cases;

(d)   preparing documents relating to transfer of real estate,
      stocks or other matters requiring formal registration;

(e)   checking validity of documents and forwarding them to
      company's share register;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Bailiff
  Clerk, conveyancing
  Clerk, court
  clerk, judge's
  Clerk, law

4111  STENOGRAPHERS AND TYPISTS
 
     Stenographers and typists record oral or written matter in
shorthand and,  using type-, writers, produce documents on paper.
     Tasks include -

(a)  taking dictation and recording other matter in shorthand;
(b)  making transcripts in typewritten form;
(c)  performing limited clerical duties, such as filing or using
     photocopying machines;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Typist
  Typist, stenography

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Secretary, typing - 4115
  Verbatim reporter - 3431

3432  LEGAL AND RELATED BUSINESS ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Legal and related business associate professionals assist
Corporate  managers, General managers, and Legal Professionals,
as well as various  business professionals in connection with
legal matters, including those  related to insurance contracts,
granting of loans and other financial  transactions.     Tasks include -

(a)   examining, or making arrangements for examining, legal
      records and other relevant documents;

(b)   preparing papers summarising legal positions, or setting
      out conditions of loans or insurance;

(c)   advising clients and agents on legal or technical matters
      relating to their particular cases;

(d)   preparing documents relating to transfer of real estate,
      stocks or other matters requiring formal registration;

(e)   checking validity of documents and forwarding them to
      company's share register;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Bailiff
  Clerk, conveyancing
  Clerk, court
  clerk, judge's
  Clerk, law

4121  ACCOUNTING AND BOOK-KEEPING CLERKS
 
     Accounting and bookkeeping clerks help with accounting and
bookkeeping  records and computations, wages and production costs
computations as well as  with cash payments.
     Tasks include -

(a)  making entries in accounting and bookkeeping records;
(b)  making necessary calculations;
(c)  performing other limited accounting and bookkeeping
     functions;
(d)  calculating from existing records production costs per unit;
(e)  calculating wages due from records of hours worked, or work
     performed by individual employees;
(f)  taking charge of cash and keeping records of cash
     transactions incidental to the business; may prepare wage
     packets and pay wages;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations included here:
   Clerk, accounts
  Clerk, bookkeeping
  Clerk, cost computing
  Clerk, wages

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Assistant, accounting - 3434
  Bookkeeper - 3433

4141  LIBRARY AND FILING CLERKS
 
     Library and filing clerks maintain library services or
perform duties  related to the filing and classification of
records.
     Tasks include -
     
(a)  maintaining library records relating to the acquisition,
     issue and return of books and other publications;
(b)  photocopying or reproducing documents and other records;
(c)  classifying and systematically filing papers, documents and
     other records;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, filing
  Clerk, library

4190  OTHER OFFICE CLERKS
 
     Other office clerks perform a wide range of general clerical
duties  mostly connected with the keeping of various office
records.
     Tasks include -

(a)  keeping personnel records of all the organisation's
     employees, showing name, address, and other details;
(b)  keeping personnel records of employees' leave and other
     information;
(c)  preparing and maintaining the organisation's address and
     telephone lists;
(d)  preparing and maintaining the organisation's mailing lists;
(e)  performing related tasks;
(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, compilation/directory
  Clerk, list/addresses
  Clerk, records/personnel

4143  CODING, PROOF-READING, AND RELATED CLERKS
 
     Coding, proof-reading, and related clerks convert
information into codes,  verify and correct proofs, and perform
a number of miscellaneous clerical  duties.
     Tasks include -

(a)  converting information into codes and classifying
     information by codes for data-processing purposes;
(b)  comparing proofs of texts and related material prepared for
     printing with original material, correcting errors and
     marking texts for printer according to the established
     rules;
(c)  sorting forms and marking them with identification numbers;
(d)  sorting documents for filing or to collate sets of pages;
(e)  addressing circulars and envelopes by hand;
(f)  performing related tasks;
(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, coding
  Proof-reader, clerical

4142  MAIL CARRIERS AND SORTING CLERKS
 
     Mail carriers and sorting clerks perform sorting, recording,
delivery and  other duties in connection with mail services from
post offices or related  organisations, as well as from or within
an establishment.
     Tasks include -

(a)  performing mail-handling duties in public post offices;
(b)  sorting and delivering mail to private houses and elsewhere;
(c)  sorting and keeping simple records of incoming and outgoing 
     correspondence and dispatching outgoing mail in various
     establishments;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, mail/dispatch
  Clerk, mail/sorting
  Post carrier
  Postman
  Postwoman

4122  STATISTICAL AND FINANCE CLERKS
 
     Statistical and finance clerks obtain, compile and compute
statistical or  actuarial data or perform clerical tasks relating
to the transactions of a  bank and other financial
establishments.
     Tasks include -

(a)  obtaining and compiling statistical or actuarial data based
     on routine or special sources of information;

(b)  calculating totals, averages, percentages and other details
     and presenting them in the required tabular form;

(c)  preparing financial documents, and calculating interest or
     brokerage charges and stamp duties payable;
(d)  maintaining records of bonds, shares and other securities
     bought or sold on behalf of clients or employer;
(e)  performing related tasks;
(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, actuarial
  Clerk, brokerage
  Clerk, finance
  Clerk, securities
  Clerk, statistical
  Clerk, tax

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Assistant, statistical - 3434
  Broker, stocks and shares - 3411
  Broker, trade - 3421

4121  ACCOUNTING AND BOOK-KEEPING CLERKS
 
     Accounting and bookkeeping clerks help with accounting and
bookkeeping  records and computations, wages and production costs
computations as well as  with cash payments.
     Tasks include -

(a)  making entries in accounting and bookkeeping records;
(b)  making necessary calculations;
(c)  performing other limited accounting and bookkeeping
     functions;
(d)  calculating from existing records production costs per unit;
(e)  calculating wages due from records of hours worked, or work
     performed by individual employees;
(f)  taking charge of cash and keeping records of cash
     transactions incidental to the business; may prepare wage
     packets and pay wages;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations included here:
   Clerk, accounts
  Clerk, bookkeeping
  Clerk, cost computing
  Clerk, wages

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Assistant, accounting - 3434
  Bookkeeper - 3433

4132  PRODUCTION CLERKS
 
     Production clerks compute quantities of materials required
at specified  dates for the production programme and prepare and
check production operation  schedules.
     Tasks include -

(a)  computing quantities, qualities and types of materials
     required by production programme;
(b)  preparing production requirements schedules, ensuring that
     materials are available when needed, and keeping relevant
     records:
(c)  preparing or assisting in the preparation of production
     operation schedules on the basis of customers' orders and
     production capacity and performance;
(d)  verifying stocks, arranging deliveries and investigating
     delays;
(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, order/materials
  Clerk, planning/materials
  Clerk, production planning
  Clerk, schedule/materials

4121  ACCOUNTING AND BOOK-KEEPING CLERKS
 
     Accounting and bookkeeping clerks help with accounting and
bookkeeping  records and computations, wages and production costs
computations as well as  with cash payments.
     Tasks include -

(a)  making entries in accounting and bookkeeping records;
(b)  making necessary calculations;
(c)  performing other limited accounting and bookkeeping
     functions;
(d)  calculating from existing records production costs per unit;
(e)  calculating wages due from records of hours worked, or work
     performed by individual employees;
(f)  taking charge of cash and keeping records of cash
     transactions incidental to the business; may prepare wage
     packets and pay wages;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations included here:
   Clerk, accounts
  Clerk, bookkeeping
  Clerk, cost computing
  Clerk, wages

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Assistant, accounting - 3434
  Bookkeeper - 3433

4141  LIBRARY AND FILING CLERKS
 
     Library and filing clerks maintain library services or
perform duties  related to the filing and classification of
records.
     Tasks include -
     
(a)  maintaining library records relating to the acquisition,
     issue and return of books and other publications;
(b)  photocopying or reproducing documents and other records;
(c)  classifying and systematically filing papers, documents and
     other records;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, filing
  Clerk, library

4132  PRODUCTION CLERKS
 
     Production clerks compute quantities of materials required
at specified  dates for the production programme and prepare and
check production operation  schedules.
     Tasks include -

(a)  computing quantities, qualities and types of materials
     required by production programme;
(b)  preparing production requirements schedules, ensuring that
     materials are available when needed, and keeping relevant
     records:
(c)  preparing or assisting in the preparation of production
     operation schedules on the basis of customers' orders and
     production capacity and performance;
(d)  verifying stocks, arranging deliveries and investigating
     delays;
(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, order/materials
  Clerk, planning/materials
  Clerk, production planning
  Clerk, schedule/materials

4212  TELLERS AND OTHER COUNTER CLERKS
 
     Tellers and other counter clerks deal directly with clients
of banks or  post offices in connection with receiving, changing
and paying out money, or  providing mail services.
     Tasks include -

(a)  receiving money or cheques from clients;
(b)  paying out money to clients;
(c)  paying bills and making money transfers on clients' behalf;
(d)  crediting and debiting clients' accounts;
(e)  changing money from one currency to another, as requested
     by clients;
(f)  making records of all transactions and reconciling them with
     cash balance;
(g)  receiving mail, selling postage stamps and conducting other
     post office counter business such as bill payments, money
     transfers and related business;
(h)  performing related tasks;
(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, post office counter
  Money changer
  Teller, bank

4114  CALCULATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 
     Calculating-machine operators operate bookkeeping and
calculating  machines.
     Tasks include -

(a)  operating bookkeeping machines to make records of business
     transactions;
(b)  operating electrical or manual machines to make arithmetical
     calculations;
(c)  performing related tasks;
(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, accounting machine
  Clerk, adding machine
  Clerk, bookkeeping machine
  Clerk, calculating machine

3432  LEGAL AND RELATED BUSINESS ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Legal and related business associate professionals assist
Corporate  managers, General managers, and Legal Professionals,
as well as various  business professionals in connection with
legal matters, including those  related to insurance contracts,
granting of loans and other financial  transactions.     Tasks include -

(a)   examining, or making arrangements for examining, legal
      records and other relevant documents;

(b)   preparing papers summarising legal positions, or setting
      out conditions of loans or insurance;

(c)   advising clients and agents on legal or technical matters
      relating to their particular cases;

(d)   preparing documents relating to transfer of real estate,
      stocks or other matters requiring formal registration;

(e)   checking validity of documents and forwarding them to
      company's share register;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Bailiff
  Clerk, conveyancing
  Clerk, court
  clerk, judge's
  Clerk, law

4132  PRODUCTION CLERKS
 
     Production clerks compute quantities of materials required
at specified  dates for the production programme and prepare and
check production operation  schedules.
     Tasks include -

(a)  computing quantities, qualities and types of materials
     required by production programme;
(b)  preparing production requirements schedules, ensuring that
     materials are available when needed, and keeping relevant
     records:
(c)  preparing or assisting in the preparation of production
     operation schedules on the basis of customers' orders and
     production capacity and performance;
(d)  verifying stocks, arranging deliveries and investigating
     delays;
(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, order/materials
  Clerk, planning/materials
  Clerk, production planning
  Clerk, schedule/materials

4143  CODING, PROOF-READING, AND RELATED CLERKS
 
     Coding, proof-reading, and related clerks convert
information into codes,  verify and correct proofs, and perform
a number of miscellaneous clerical  duties.
     Tasks include -

(a)  converting information into codes and classifying
     information by codes for data-processing purposes;
(b)  comparing proofs of texts and related material prepared for
     printing with original material, correcting errors and
     marking texts for printer according to the established
     rules;
(c)  sorting forms and marking them with identification numbers;
(d)  sorting documents for filing or to collate sets of pages;
(e)  addressing circulars and envelopes by hand;
(f)  performing related tasks;
(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, coding
  Proof-reader, clerical

4122  STATISTICAL AND FINANCE CLERKS
 
     Statistical and finance clerks obtain, compile and compute
statistical or  actuarial data or perform clerical tasks relating
to the transactions of a  bank and other financial
establishments.
     Tasks include -

(a)  obtaining and compiling statistical or actuarial data based
     on routine or special sources of information;

(b)  calculating totals, averages, percentages and other details
     and presenting them in the required tabular form;

(c)  preparing financial documents, and calculating interest or
     brokerage charges and stamp duties payable;
(d)  maintaining records of bonds, shares and other securities
     bought or sold on behalf of clients or employer;
(e)  performing related tasks;
(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, actuarial
  Clerk, brokerage
  Clerk, finance
  Clerk, securities
  Clerk, statistical
  Clerk, tax

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Assistant, statistical - 3434
  Broker, stocks and shares - 3411
  Broker, trade - 3421

4190  OTHER OFFICE CLERKS
 
     Other office clerks perform a wide range of general clerical
duties  mostly connected with the keeping of various office
records.
     Tasks include -

(a)  keeping personnel records of all the organisation's
     employees, showing name, address, and other details;
(b)  keeping personnel records of employees' leave and other
     information;
(c)  preparing and maintaining the organisation's address and
     telephone lists;
(d)  preparing and maintaining the organisation's mailing lists;
(e)  performing related tasks;
(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, compilation/directory
  Clerk, list/addresses
  Clerk, records/personnel

4141  LIBRARY AND FILING CLERKS
 
     Library and filing clerks maintain library services or
perform duties  related to the filing and classification of
records.
     Tasks include -
     
(a)  maintaining library records relating to the acquisition,
     issue and return of books and other publications;
(b)  photocopying or reproducing documents and other records;
(c)  classifying and systematically filing papers, documents and
     other records;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, filing
  Clerk, library

4121  ACCOUNTING AND BOOK-KEEPING CLERKS
 
     Accounting and bookkeeping clerks help with accounting and
bookkeeping  records and computations, wages and production costs
computations as well as  with cash payments.
     Tasks include -

(a)  making entries in accounting and bookkeeping records;
(b)  making necessary calculations;
(c)  performing other limited accounting and bookkeeping
     functions;
(d)  calculating from existing records production costs per unit;
(e)  calculating wages due from records of hours worked, or work
     performed by individual employees;
(f)  taking charge of cash and keeping records of cash
     transactions incidental to the business; may prepare wage
     packets and pay wages;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations included here:
   Clerk, accounts
  Clerk, bookkeeping
  Clerk, cost computing
  Clerk, wages

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Assistant, accounting - 3434
  Bookkeeper - 3433

4132  PRODUCTION CLERKS
 
     Production clerks compute quantities of materials required
at specified  dates for the production programme and prepare and
check production operation  schedules.
     Tasks include -

(a)  computing quantities, qualities and types of materials
     required by production programme;
(b)  preparing production requirements schedules, ensuring that
     materials are available when needed, and keeping relevant
     records:
(c)  preparing or assisting in the preparation of production
     operation schedules on the basis of customers' orders and
     production capacity and performance;
(d)  verifying stocks, arranging deliveries and investigating
     delays;
(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, order/materials
  Clerk, planning/materials
  Clerk, production planning
  Clerk, schedule/materials

4143  CODING, PROOF-READING, AND RELATED CLERKS
 
     Coding, proof-reading, and related clerks convert
information into codes,  verify and correct proofs, and perform
a number of miscellaneous clerical  duties.
     Tasks include -

(a)  converting information into codes and classifying
     information by codes for data-processing purposes;
(b)  comparing proofs of texts and related material prepared for
     printing with original material, correcting errors and
     marking texts for printer according to the established
     rules;
(c)  sorting forms and marking them with identification numbers;
(d)  sorting documents for filing or to collate sets of pages;
(e)  addressing circulars and envelopes by hand;
(f)  performing related tasks;
(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, coding
  Proof-reader, clerical

4122  STATISTICAL AND FINANCE CLERKS
 
     Statistical and finance clerks obtain, compile and compute
statistical or  actuarial data or perform clerical tasks relating
to the transactions of a  bank and other financial
establishments.
     Tasks include -

(a)  obtaining and compiling statistical or actuarial data based
     on routine or special sources of information;

(b)  calculating totals, averages, percentages and other details
     and presenting them in the required tabular form;

(c)  preparing financial documents, and calculating interest or
     brokerage charges and stamp duties payable;
(d)  maintaining records of bonds, shares and other securities
     bought or sold on behalf of clients or employer;
(e)  performing related tasks;
(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, actuarial
  Clerk, brokerage
  Clerk, finance
  Clerk, securities
  Clerk, statistical
  Clerk, tax

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Assistant, statistical - 3434
  Broker, stocks and shares - 3411
  Broker, trade - 3421

4131  STOCK CLERKS
 
     Stock clerks maintain records of goods produced and
production materials  received, weighed, issued, dispatched or
put into stock.
     Tasks include -
     
(a)  arranging and controlling receipt and dispatch of goods and
     keeping relevant records;
(b)  maintaining stock records, verifying issue of goods,
     estimating needs and making requisitions of new stocks;
(c)  receiving, storing and issuing tools, spare parts, or
     various equipment and maintaining relevant records;
(d)  weighing goods received, issued, produced, or dispatched and
     maintaining relevant records;
(e)  compiling inventories of furniture and other items received
     for storage;
(f)  performing related tasks; 
(g) supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, freight/dispatching
  Clerk, freight/receiving
  Clerk, stock/records
  Clerk, stock/storeroom
  Clerk, weighing

4122  STATISTICAL AND FINANCE CLERKS
 
     Statistical and finance clerks obtain, compile and compute
statistical or  actuarial data or perform clerical tasks relating
to the transactions of a  bank and other financial
establishments.
     Tasks include -

(a)  obtaining and compiling statistical or actuarial data based
     on routine or special sources of information;

(b)  calculating totals, averages, percentages and other details
     and presenting them in the required tabular form;

(c)  preparing financial documents, and calculating interest or
     brokerage charges and stamp duties payable;
(d)  maintaining records of bonds, shares and other securities
     bought or sold on behalf of clients or employer;
(e)  performing related tasks;
(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, actuarial
  Clerk, brokerage
  Clerk, finance
  Clerk, securities
  Clerk, statistical
  Clerk, tax

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Assistant, statistical - 3434
  Broker, stocks and shares - 3411
  Broker, trade - 3421

4112 WORD-PROCESSOR AND RELATED OPERATORS
 
     Word-processor and related operators type, edit, and print
various  documents using word-processing equipment, or send and
receive messages and  facsimiles by means of a teleprinter,
telefax or similar machines.
     Tasks include -

(a)  typing correspondence, business forms and other documents
     into word-processing machines;
(b)  planning and executing layout and format, if not preset;
(c)  altering, rearranging and editing typed text;
(d)  operating printer, usually linked to the word processor;
(e)  sending and receiving messages or facsimiles by means of a
     teleprinter, telefax or similar machines-,
(f)  performing limited clerical duties;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, telefax
  Clerk, teleprinter
  Clerk, telex
  Clerk, word processing

4221  TRAVEL AGENCY AND RELATED CLERKS
 
     Travel agency and related clerks supply information, arrange
travel  itineraries and obtain necessary reservations.
     Tasks include -

(a)  advising customer on itineraries and method of travel;
(b)  preparing itineraries;
(c)  making necessary reservations;
(d)  issuing tickets, vouchers and other documents;
(e)  obtaining visas, if necessary;
(f)  preparing  bills  and  receiving  payments-,
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, ticket issuing/travel
  Clerk, travel/airlines
  Clerk, travel agency
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Clerk, ticket issuing/except travel 4211
  Consultant, travel - 3414
  Department manager, production and operations/travel
        agency - 1229
  General manager, travel agency - 1319
  Organiser, travel - 3414

4211  CASHIERS AND TICKET CLERKS
 
     Cashiers and ticket clerks receive, directly from clients,
payments for  goods or services bought in establishments such as
stores and ticket offices,  or they pay out cash in banks and
related organisations.
     Tasks include -
(a)  receiving and verifying cash, cheque or credit-card payments
     in stores, ticket offices, or similar establishments;
(b)  giving change and issuing receipts;
(c)  issuing tickets at ticket offices, and taking corresponding
     payments;
(d)  paying out cash, mostly in banks, against written orders,
     credit notes, or resulting from currency exchanges, and
     obtaining receipts;
(e)  keeping records and reconciling them with cash balance;
(f)  receiving incoming cash of an establishment, checking it
     against sales slips and other documents, and preparing it
     for deposit at bank;
(g)  paying out wages to establishments' personnel;
(h)  operating cash register;
(i)  performing related tasks;
(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Cashier,bank 
  Cashier, store
  Clerk, ticket issuing/except travel

4133  TRANSPORT CLERKS
 
     Transport clerks keep records of operational aspects and
coordinate the  timing of train, road and air passenger and
freight transport, and prepare  reports for management.
     Tasks include -

(a)  keeping records of operational aspects, and coordinating the
     timing of passenger and freight transport;

(b)  directing train routings within a division or zone of a
     railway system and keeping related records;
(c)  directing, controlling and keeping records of freight
     handling at a railway yard;
(d)  coordinating and keeping records of operational activities
     concerning road transport, such as allocation and scheduling
     of vehicles and drivers, loading and unloading of vehicles
     and storage of goods in transit;
(e)  coordinating and keeping records of operational activities
     concerning air transport of passengers and freight, such as
     passenger lists and freight manifests;
(f)  preparing reports for management;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Controller, clerical/air transport service
  Controller, clerical/railway service
  Controller, clerical/road transport service
  Dispatcher, clerical/boat
  Dispatcher, clerical/bus
  Dispatcher, clerical/train
  Dispatcher, clerical/truck

4221  TRAVEL AGENCY AND RELATED CLERKS
 
     Travel agency and related clerks supply information, arrange
travel  itineraries and obtain necessary reservations.
     Tasks include -

(a)  advising customer on itineraries and method of travel;
(b)  preparing itineraries;
(c)  making necessary reservations;
(d)  issuing tickets, vouchers and other documents;
(e)  obtaining visas, if necessary;
(f)  preparing  bills  and  receiving  payments-,
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, ticket issuing/travel
  Clerk, travel/airlines
  Clerk, travel agency
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Clerk, ticket issuing/except travel 4211
  Consultant, travel - 3414
  Department manager, production and operations/travel
        agency - 1229
  General manager, travel agency - 1319
  Organiser, travel - 3414

4111  STENOGRAPHERS AND TYPISTS
 
     Stenographers and typists record oral or written matter in
shorthand and,  using type-, writers, produce documents on paper.
     Tasks include -

(a)  taking dictation and recording other matter in shorthand;
(b)  making transcripts in typewritten form;
(c)  performing limited clerical duties, such as filing or using
     photocopying machines;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Typist
  Typist, stenography

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Secretary, typing - 4115
  Verbatim reporter - 3431

4121  ACCOUNTING AND BOOK-KEEPING CLERKS
 
     Accounting and bookkeeping clerks help with accounting and
bookkeeping  records and computations, wages and production costs
computations as well as  with cash payments.
     Tasks include -

(a)  making entries in accounting and bookkeeping records;
(b)  making necessary calculations;
(c)  performing other limited accounting and bookkeeping
     functions;
(d)  calculating from existing records production costs per unit;
(e)  calculating wages due from records of hours worked, or work
     performed by individual employees;
(f)  taking charge of cash and keeping records of cash
     transactions incidental to the business; may prepare wage
     packets and pay wages;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations included here:
   Clerk, accounts
  Clerk, bookkeeping
  Clerk, cost computing
  Clerk, wages

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Assistant, accounting - 3434
  Bookkeeper - 3433

4131  STOCK CLERKS
 
     Stock clerks maintain records of goods produced and
production materials  received, weighed, issued, dispatched or
put into stock.
     Tasks include -
     
(a)  arranging and controlling receipt and dispatch of goods and
     keeping relevant records;
(b)  maintaining stock records, verifying issue of goods,
     estimating needs and making requisitions of new stocks;
(c)  receiving, storing and issuing tools, spare parts, or
     various equipment and maintaining relevant records;
(d)  weighing goods received, issued, produced, or dispatched and
     maintaining relevant records;
(e)  compiling inventories of furniture and other items received
     for storage;
(f)  performing related tasks; 
(g) supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, freight/dispatching
  Clerk, freight/receiving
  Clerk, stock/records
  Clerk, stock/storeroom
  Clerk, weighing

4112 WORD-PROCESSOR AND RELATED OPERATORS
 
     Word-processor and related operators type, edit, and print
various  documents using word-processing equipment, or send and
receive messages and  facsimiles by means of a teleprinter,
telefax or similar machines.
     Tasks include -

(a)  typing correspondence, business forms and other documents
     into word-processing machines;
(b)  planning and executing layout and format, if not preset;
(c)  altering, rearranging and editing typed text;
(d)  operating printer, usually linked to the word processor;
(e)  sending and receiving messages or facsimiles by means of a
     teleprinter, telefax or similar machines-,
(f)  performing limited clerical duties;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, telefax
  Clerk, teleprinter
  Clerk, telex
  Clerk, word processing

2112  METEOROLOGISTS 
     Meteorologists conduct research, improve or develop
concepts, theories  and operational methods related to the
composition, structure and dynamics of  the atmosphere, and
prepare detailed or long-term weather forecasts used in 
aviation, shipping, agriculture and other areas and for the
information of the  general public.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods related to the
      composition, structure and dynamics of the atmosphere;

(b)   investigating direction and speed of air movements,
      pressures, temperatures, humidity and other phenomena such
      as cloud formation and precipitation, electrical
      disturbances or solar radiation;

(c)   studying data collected from weather stations, preparing
      detailed or long term weather maps and forecasts used in
      aviation, shipping, agriculture and other areas and for the
      information of the general public;

(d)   conducting experiments in fog dispersal, rain-making and
      other types of weather control;

(e)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(f)   performing related tasks;



(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Climatologist
  Forecaster, weather

  Meteorologist


6141  FORESTRY WORKERS AND LOGGERS
 
     Forestry workers and loggers carry out the necessary
operations to  cultivate, conserve and exploit forests, for sale
or delivery of forestry  products on a regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a) establishing and caring for forest stands;

(b)  locating trees to be felled and estimating volume of timber;

(c)  trimming, topping and felling trees and sawing them into
     logs;

(d)  shaping rough wooden products from logs at felling site;

(e)  stacking logs, loading them in chutes or floating them down
     rivers;

(f)  keeping watch to detect forest fires and participating in
     firefighting operations;

(g)  delivering or marketing forestry products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Climber, logging
  Cruiser, timber
  Feller-bucker, tree
  Forestry worker, skilled
  Logger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/forestry
        - 1221
  General manager, forestry - 1311
  Labourer, forestry - 9212
  Managing director, enterprise/forestry - 1210
  Operator, forestry machinery - 8331

7111  MINERS AND QUARRY WORKERS
 

     Miners and quarry workers extract solid minerals from
underground or  surface mines or quarries.

     Tasks include -

(a)  extracting coal, ores and other solid minerals from
     underground or surface mines;

(b)  extracting granite, limestone, slate, flint or other kinds
     of rocks from quarries;

(c)  setting and operating machines which cut channels or drill
     blasting holes into the open face of mines or quarries;

(d)  cutting, fitting and installing wood or steel props, pillars
     and arches to support walls and roof of underground
     workings;

(e)  collecting samples of coal or ore for laboratory analysis;

(f)  extracting chalk, clay, gravel or sand from open pits;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Miner
  Quarrier
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, drilling/mine - 8111
  Machine-operator, mining/continuous - 8111

3474  CLOWNS, MAGICIANS, ACROBATS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS
 
     Clowns, magicians, acrobats and related associate
professionals entertain  audiences in circuses and other places
by performing a variety of acts.   
   
     Tasks include -

(a)   performing amusing antics and telling funny stories;

(b)   performing tricks of illusion and sleight of hand, and
      feats of hypnotism;

(c)   performing difficult and spectacular acrobatics, and
      gymnastic or juggling feats:

(d)   training and performing with animals;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Acrobat	
  Aerialist
  Clown
  Hypnotist
  Magician

3475  ATHLETES, SPORTSPERSONS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Athletes, sportspersons and related associate professionals
participate  in competitive sporting events, conduct sports
training, compile rules  concerning sporting events, and control
the progress of these events.     Tasks include -

(a)   participating in competitive sporting events;

(b)   conducting sports training to develop ability in and
      knowledge of the sport;

(c)   compiling rules concerning the conduct of sporting
      competitions, and controlling the progress of these events;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Athlete
  Boxer
  Coach, sports
  Official, sports
  Wrestler

9162  SWEEPERS AND RELATED LABOURERS
 

     Sweepers and related labourers sweep and clean streets,
parks, airports,  stations and other public places or perform odd
jobs.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sweeping streets, parks, airports, stations and similar
     public places;

(b)  unloading coal or wood and putting it into cellars of
     private households or establishments;

(c)  chopping and stacking wood

(d)  carrying water;

(e)  shovelling snow;

(f)  beating dust out of carpets by using a carpet-beater;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Odd-job person
  Sweeper, park
  Sweeper, street

5169  PROTECTIVE SERVICES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers protective services workers not
classified  elsewhere in Minor group 516, Protective services
workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who patrol
buildings and  areas to prevent illegal entry, theft, violence
and other unlawful acts, and  who, if necessary, use force to
prevent such acts and apprehend perpetrators,  as well as those
who act as bodyguards, life-guards or game-wardens.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  patrolling buildings and areas to prevent theft, violence,
     infractions of rules or other irregularities;

(b)  if necessary, exercising the right to use force and to 
     apprehend.perpetrators;

(c)  performing the duties of a bodyguard;

(d)  patrolling beaches and swimming pools to prevent accidents
     and to rescue bathers from drowning;

(e)  patrolling natural reserves, game parks, forest areas and
     enclosures to prevent theft and killing of game;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Bodyguard
  Game-warden
  Life-guard
  Patrolman, security
  Patrolwoman, security
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Doorkeeper - 91 52
  Guard, museum - 9152
  Watchman - 9152
  Watchwoman - 9152

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

4143  CODING, PROOF-READING, AND RELATED CLERKS
 
     Coding, proof-reading, and related clerks convert
information into codes,  verify and correct proofs, and perform
a number of miscellaneous clerical  duties.
     Tasks include -

(a)  converting information into codes and classifying
     information by codes for data-processing purposes;
(b)  comparing proofs of texts and related material prepared for
     printing with original material, correcting errors and
     marking texts for printer according to the established
     rules;
(c)  sorting forms and marking them with identification numbers;
(d)  sorting documents for filing or to collate sets of pages;
(e)  addressing circulars and envelopes by hand;
(f)  performing related tasks;
(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, coding
  Proof-reader, clerical

7345  BOOKBINDERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Bookbinders and related workers bind covers to books and
perform  book-finishing operations.

     Tasks include -

(a)  binding books and periodicals by hand;

(b)  setting and operating bookbinding machines;

(c)  embossing designs or titles on books by hand or machine;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Bookbinder
  Embosser, book
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, bookbinding 8252

4215  DEBT-COLLECTORS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Debt-collectors and related workers collect payments and
perform clerical  duties associated with these collections.
     Tasks include -

(a)  telephoning or writing to customers to collect money or
     arrange for later payments;
(b)  tracing addresses of customers and paying visits to collect
     debts;
(c)  noting amounts collected;
(d)  recommending legal action when payment cannot be otherwise
     obtained;
(e)  asking for and collecting charity payments;
(f)  performing related tasks;
(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Collector, charity
  Collector, debt

9153  VENDING-MACHINE MONEY COLLECTORS, METER READERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Vending-machine money collectors, meter readers and related
workers stock  vending machines and collect money from them or
from parking meters and other  coin-boxes, or read electricity,
gas or water meters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  filling storage areas of vending machines and collecting
     money from their containers;

(b)  collecting money from parking meters and similar coin-boxes;

(c)  reading electricity, gas or water meters and recording
     consumption;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Collector, vending machine
  Meter reader

4215  DEBT-COLLECTORS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Debt-collectors and related workers collect payments and
perform clerical  duties associated with these collections.
     Tasks include -

(a)  telephoning or writing to customers to collect money or
     arrange for later payments;
(b)  tracing addresses of customers and paying visits to collect
     debts;
(c)  noting amounts collected;
(d)  recommending legal action when payment cannot be otherwise
     obtained;
(e)  asking for and collecting charity payments;
(f)  performing related tasks;
(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Collector, charity
  Collector, debt

9161  GARBAGE COLLECTORS
 

     Garbage collectors collect and remove garbage from
buildings, yards,  streets and other public places.

     Tasks include -

(a)  collecting garbage by putting it into bigger containers;

(b)  collecting garbage and loading it onto a vehicle;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Collector, refuse
  Dustman
  Dustwoman

4215  DEBT-COLLECTORS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Debt-collectors and related workers collect payments and
perform clerical  duties associated with these collections.
     Tasks include -

(a)  telephoning or writing to customers to collect money or
     arrange for later payments;
(b)  tracing addresses of customers and paying visits to collect
     debts;
(c)  noting amounts collected;
(d)  recommending legal action when payment cannot be otherwise
     obtained;
(e)  asking for and collecting charity payments;
(f)  performing related tasks;
(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Collector, charity
  Collector, debt

9161  GARBAGE COLLECTORS
 

     Garbage collectors collect and remove garbage from
buildings, yards,  streets and other public places.

     Tasks include -

(a)  collecting garbage by putting it into bigger containers;

(b)  collecting garbage and loading it onto a vehicle;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Collector, refuse
  Dustman
  Dustwoman

4215  DEBT-COLLECTORS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Debt-collectors and related workers collect payments and
perform clerical  duties associated with these collections.
     Tasks include -

(a)  telephoning or writing to customers to collect money or
     arrange for later payments;
(b)  tracing addresses of customers and paying visits to collect
     debts;
(c)  noting amounts collected;
(d)  recommending legal action when payment cannot be otherwise
     obtained;
(e)  asking for and collecting charity payments;
(f)  performing related tasks;
(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Collector, charity
  Collector, debt

9152  DOORKEEPERS, WATCHPERSONS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Doorkeepers, watchpersons and related workers undertake
doorkeeping  duties in apartment houses and other buildings,
attend parking places, watch  houses and other properties to
prevent illegal entry or theft and detect fire  or other hazards,
collect tickets, or perform ushering duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  doorkeeping in hotels and helping guests, especially on
     their arrival and departure, with luggage, keys, or
     information about directions, etc. ;

(b)  doorkeeping in apartment houses and other buildings,
     checking the right-of-entry of callers and giving them
     requested information;

(c)  watching houses and other properties to prevent illegal
     entry or theft, fire or other hazards;

(d)  ushering people into courtrooms, sporting places and similar
     
     establishments;

(e)  collecting tickets in cinemas, theatres, circuses and
     related places;

(f)  taking charge of cloakrooms or lavatories in public places;

(g)  attending parking places;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Attendant, cloakroom
  Collector, ticket
  Concierge, hotel desk
  Doorkeeper
  Guard, museum
  Porter, hotel
  Watchman
  Watchwoman
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Bodyguard - 5169
  Concierge, building - 9141
  Game-warden - 5169
  Patrolman, security - 5169
  Patrolwoman security - 5169
  Porter, luggage - 9151

9153  VENDING-MACHINE MONEY COLLECTORS, METER READERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Vending-machine money collectors, meter readers and related
workers stock  vending machines and collect money from them or
from parking meters and other  coin-boxes, or read electricity,
gas or water meters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  filling storage areas of vending machines and collecting
     money from their containers;

(b)  collecting money from parking meters and similar coin-boxes;

(c)  reading electricity, gas or water meters and recording
     consumption;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Collector, vending machine
  Meter reader

2451  AUTHORS, JOURNALISTS AND OTHER WRITERS 
     Authors, journalists and other writers write literary works
for  publication or presentation in dramatic form, appraise
merits of artistic  productions, or literary and other works of
art, or write and edit news,  stories and commentaries.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing literary works for publication or
      presentation in dramatic form;

(b)   writing scripts and continuities and preparing programmes
      for stage, film, radio and television productions;

(c)   appraising and writing about merits of literary, musical
      and other works of art, and about artistic performances;

(d)   collecting, reporting and commenting on news and current
      affairs for publication in newspapers and periodicals, or
      for broadcasting by radio or television;

(e)   interviewing politicians and other public figures at press
      conferences and on other occasions, including individual
      interviews recorded for radio or television;

(f)   writing editorials and selecting, revising, arranging and
      editing submitted articles and other material for
      publication in newspapers and periodicals;

(g)   appraising manuscripts submitted for publication in book
      form, making recommendations thereon and editing or
      supervising editing of the material;

(h)   writing advertising copy promoting particular products or
      services;

(i)   selecting, assembling and preparing publicity material
      about business or other organisations for issue through
      press, radio, television and other media;

(j)   designing and writing brochures, handbooks and similar
      technical publications;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Author
  Copywriter, advertising
  Critic
  Editor
  Journalist
  Writer, technical

7431  FIBRE PREPARERS
 

     Fibre preparers prepare wool, cotton,flax, jute, hemp and
other natural  textile fibres for spinning and winding.

     Tasks include -

(a)  grading and classifying natural textile fibres;

(b)  washing wool fibres;

(c)  cleaning and fluffing textile fibres;

(d)  forming fibres into sliver, combing them, combining sliver
     into sliver laps or forming sliver into rove;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Comber, fibre/textiles
  Drawer, fibre/textiles
  Rover, fibre/textiles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator combing/textile fibres - 8261

3474  CLOWNS, MAGICIANS, ACROBATS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS
 
     Clowns, magicians, acrobats and related associate
professionals entertain  audiences in circuses and other places
by performing a variety of acts.   
   
     Tasks include -

(a)   performing amusing antics and telling funny stories;

(b)   performing tricks of illusion and sleight of hand, and
      feats of hypnotism;

(c)   performing difficult and spectacular acrobatics, and
      gymnastic or juggling feats:

(d)   training and performing with animals;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Acrobat	
  Aerialist
  Clown
  Hypnotist
  Magician

2451  AUTHORS, JOURNALISTS AND OTHER WRITERS 
     Authors, journalists and other writers write literary works
for  publication or presentation in dramatic form, appraise
merits of artistic  productions, or literary and other works of
art, or write and edit news,  stories and commentaries.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing literary works for publication or
      presentation in dramatic form;

(b)   writing scripts and continuities and preparing programmes
      for stage, film, radio and television productions;

(c)   appraising and writing about merits of literary, musical
      and other works of art, and about artistic performances;

(d)   collecting, reporting and commenting on news and current
      affairs for publication in newspapers and periodicals, or
      for broadcasting by radio or television;

(e)   interviewing politicians and other public figures at press
      conferences and on other occasions, including individual
      interviews recorded for radio or television;

(f)   writing editorials and selecting, revising, arranging and
      editing submitted articles and other material for
      publication in newspapers and periodicals;

(g)   appraising manuscripts submitted for publication in book
      form, making recommendations thereon and editing or
      supervising editing of the material;

(h)   writing advertising copy promoting particular products or
      services;

(i)   selecting, assembling and preparing publicity material
      about business or other organisations for issue through
      press, radio, television and other media;

(j)   designing and writing brochures, handbooks and similar
      technical publications;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Author
  Copywriter, advertising
  Critic
  Editor
  Journalist
  Writer, technical

3415  TECHNICAL AND COMMERCIAL SALES REPRESENTATIVES 
     Technical and commercial sales representatives sell various
goods on a  wholesale basis including installations, equipment
and technical products and  related services, and provide
specialised information as required.     Tasks include -

(a)   soliciting orders and selling goods to retail, industrial,
      wholesale and other establishments;

(b)   selling technical equipment, supplies and related services
      to business establishments or individuals;

(c)   providing prospective customers with general and
      specialised information about the characteristics and
      functions of the equipment, and 
     demonstrating its use;

(d)   reporting customers' reactions and requirements to
      manufacturers;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Adviser, after-sales service
  Canvasser
  Commercial traveller
  Salesperson, technical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Salesperson, retail establishment - 5220

1120  SENIOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS 

      Senior government officials advise governments on policy
matters, oversee the interpretation and implementation of
government policies and legislation  by government departments
and agencies, represent their country abroad and act  on its
behalf, or carry out similar tasks in intergovernmental
organisations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   advising national, state, regional or local governments on
      policy matters;

(b)   advising on the preparation of government budgets, laws and
      regulations, including amendments;

(c)   overseeing the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies and legislation by government
      departments and agencies;

(d)   representing their country abroad;
         
(e)   performing similar tasks in intergovernmental
      organisations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Administrator, government
Administrator, intergovernmental organisation
Ambassador
Consul-general
Secretary, government/non legislative

5142  COMPANIONS AND VALETS
 
     Companions and valets provide companionship and attend to
various  personal needs of the employer.

     Tasks include -

(a)  providing companionship to employer by accompanying him/her
     to various places, reading, conversing and participating in
     activities such as sports;

(b)  assisting in entertaining visitors in employer's home;

(c)  keeping wardrobe and personal effects of the employer in
     good order;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Companion
  Valet
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Escort, social - 5149
  Partner, dancing - 5149

1231  FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION DEPARTMENT MANAGERS 
      Finance and administration department managers plan, direct
and  coordinate the internal administration or financial
operations of the  enterprise or organisation, under the broad
guidance of the directors and  chief executives, and in
consultation with managers of other departments or  sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating the internal
      administration or financial operations of the enterprise or
      organisation;

(b)   assessing the financial situation of the enterprise or
      organisation, preparing budgets and overseeing various
      financial operations;

(c)   controlling expenditure and ensuring the efficient use of
      resources;

(d)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(e)   planning and directing daily operations;

(f)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(g)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the organisation or with outside bodies;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Department manager, administration

Department manager, finance

3472  RADIO, TELEVISION AND OTHER ANNOUNCERS

 
     Radio, television and other announcers read news bulletins,
conduct  interviews, and make other announcements or
introductions on radio, television  or in theatres and other
establishments.     Tasks include -

(a)   reading news bulletins and making other announcements on
      radio or television;

(b)   introducing performing artists or persons being
      interviewed, and making related announcements on radio,
      television, or in theatres, night-clubs and other
      establishments;

(c)   interviewing persons in public, especially on radio and
      television;

(d)   performing related tasks-

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Announcer, radio
  Announcer, television
  Compere
  Interviewer, media
  Newscaster

4190  OTHER OFFICE CLERKS
 
     Other office clerks perform a wide range of general clerical
duties  mostly connected with the keeping of various office
records.
     Tasks include -

(a)  keeping personnel records of all the organisation's
     employees, showing name, address, and other details;
(b)  keeping personnel records of employees' leave and other
     information;
(c)  preparing and maintaining the organisation's address and
     telephone lists;
(d)  preparing and maintaining the organisation's mailing lists;
(e)  performing related tasks;
(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, compilation/directory
  Clerk, list/addresses
  Clerk, records/personnel

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

7341  COMPOSITORS, TYPESETTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Compositors, typesetters and related workers set and arrange
printing  type by hand or machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting type by hand and printing copies with simple
     machines;

(b)  operating linotype, monotype and typecasting machines;

(c)  arranging set-up of type and spacing material and
     illustration blocks to make pages;

(d)  arranging pages in sequence for printing;

(e)  operating electronic key-boarding machines which enable
     characters to be converted into film, sensitised tape or
     paper for subsequent photo plate-making;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Compositor, printing
  Printer
  Typesetter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Press-operator, printing/cylinder 8251

7412  BAKERS, PASTRY-COOKS AND CONFECTIONERY MAKERS
 

     Bakers, pastry-cooks and confectionery makers make various
kinds of  bread, cakes, and other flour products, as well as
handmade chocolate and  sugar confectionery.

     Tasks include  -

(a)  making bread, cakes, biscuits, pastries, pies and other
     flour products;

(b)  making handmade confectionery from mixtures of sugar,
     chocolate and other ingredients with the help of tools and
     some machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Baker
  Confectioner
  Maker, chocolate
 Pastry-cook
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cook - 5122
  Machine-operator, bakery products 8274
  Machine-operator, bread production 8274
  Machine-operator, chocolate production - 8274

9141  BUILDING CARETAKERS
 

     Building caretakers take care of apartment houses, hotels,
offices,  churches and other buildings and maintain them in a
clean and orderly  condition.

     Tasks include -

(a)  participating in cleaning, simple repairs and maintenance
     of building interiors;

(b)  tending furnaces and boilers to ensure provision of heat and
     hot water;

(c)  regulating conduct of tenants and visitors in such matters
     as noise abatement or misuse of property;

(d)  providing small services to absent tenants such as accepting
     deliveries on their behalf or providing requested
     information to callers;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Caretaker, building/cleaning
  Concierge, building
  Janitor
  Sexton

9152  DOORKEEPERS, WATCHPERSONS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Doorkeepers, watchpersons and related workers undertake
doorkeeping  duties in apartment houses and other buildings,
attend parking places, watch  houses and other properties to
prevent illegal entry or theft and detect fire  or other hazards,
collect tickets, or perform ushering duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  doorkeeping in hotels and helping guests, especially on
     their arrival and departure, with luggage, keys, or
     information about directions, etc. ;

(b)  doorkeeping in apartment houses and other buildings,
     checking the right-of-entry of callers and giving them
     requested information;

(c)  watching houses and other properties to prevent illegal
     entry or theft, fire or other hazards;

(d)  ushering people into courtrooms, sporting places and similar
     
     establishments;

(e)  collecting tickets in cinemas, theatres, circuses and
     related places;

(f)  taking charge of cloakrooms or lavatories in public places;

(g)  attending parking places;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Attendant, cloakroom
  Collector, ticket
  Concierge, hotel desk
  Doorkeeper
  Guard, museum
  Porter, hotel
  Watchman
  Watchwoman
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Bodyguard - 5169
  Concierge, building - 9141
  Game-warden - 5169
  Patrolman, security - 5169
  Patrolwoman security - 5169
  Porter, luggage - 9151

2412  PERSONNEL AND CAREERS PROFESSIONALS 
     Personnel and careers professionals provide professional
business  services related to personnel policies such as employee
recruitment or  development, occupational analyses and vocational
guidance.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising on and performing personnel functions relating to
      employee recruitment, placement, training, promotion,
      compensation, and employee-management relations or other
      areas of personnel policy;

(b)   studying and analysing jobs performed in an establishment
      by various means, including interviews with workers,
      supervisors and management, and writing detailed post, job
      and occupation descriptions from data obtained;

(c)   preparing occupational information booklets or working on
      occupational classification systems;

(d)   advising and working on the foregoing and other aspects of
      job and occupation analyses in such fields as personnel
      administration, manpower research and planning, training,
      or occupational information and vocational guidance;

(e)   studying and advising individuals on employment
      opportunities, career choices and further education or
      training that may be desirable;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Adviser, careers
  Analyst, job
  Analyst, occupational
  Counsellor, vocational guidance

7123  CONCRETE PLACERS, CONCRETE FINISHERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Concrete placers, concrete finishers and related workers
erect reinforced  concrete frameworks and structures, make forms
for moulding concrete,  reinforce concrete surfaces, cement
openings in walls or casings for wells,  finish and repair cement
surfaces and carry out terrazzo work.
     
     Tasks include -

(a)  constructing and repairing reinforced concrete floors,
     walls, tanks, silos and other concrete structures;

(b)  making shuttering or assembling prefabricated forms for
     moulding concrete;

(c)  cementing openings in walls or casings for wells;

(d)  finishing and smoothing surfaces of concrete structures;

(e)  applying a durable, smooth surfacing composed of cement,
     sand pigment and marble particles to floors, known as a
     terrazzo finish;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Finisher, cement
  Placer, concrete
  Terrazzo worker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, finishing/concrete 8212
  Operator, road surface laying machinery - 8332

7416  TOBACCO PREPARERS AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Tobacco preparers and tobacco products makers prepare
tobacco leaves and  make various tobacco products.

     Tasks  include -

(a)  grading cured tobacco leaves by type, quality and locality
     where grown;

(b)  mixing tobacco leaves according to formula to obtain a blend
     of distinct flavour;

(c)  tending vacuum container which moistens tobacco for further
     processing;

(d)  removing midribs and stalks from tobacco leaves and
     shredding tobacco;

(e)  making cigars, cigarettes, snuff and other tobacco products
     by hand or with simple machines;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, tobacco
  Maker, cigar
  Maker, cigarette
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, cigar production - 8279
  Machine-operator, cigarette production - 8279

3473  STREET, NIGHT-CLUB AND RELATED MUSICIANS, SINGERS AND
DANCERS
 
     Street, night-club and related musicians, singers and
dancers perform  music, or sing or dance on the streets, in
night-clubs, circuses and related  places.     Tasks include -

(a)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist, or
      as a member of a popular music orchestra of circus, or
      other bands;

(b)   singing popular arias as a soloist, or as a member of vocal
      groups in night-clubs, or on the streets;

(c)   performing dances as a soloist, with a partner or as a
      member of dancing groups, in places such as circuses,
      night-clubs or on the streets;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Band leader
  Dancer, night-club
  Musician, night club
  Singer, street
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Conductor, orchestra - 2453
  Dancer, ballet - 2454
  Instrumentalist - 2453
  Singer, choir - 2453

5112  TRANSPORT CONDUCTORS
 
     Transport conductors collect or issue tickets and take care
of safety and  comfort on trains, trams, buses and other public
transport vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  collecting or issuing tickets, passes or fares, or checking
     the validity of ticket& issued previously;

(b)  taking care of sleeping-car on a passenger train, including
     the checking of passengers' tickets, their safety and
     information requests:

(c)  ensuring that safety regulations are respected:

(d)  giving information to passengers, especially about stops and
     connections;

(e)  cooperating with the driver in maintaining time schedules;

(f)  taking appropriate action in case of emergencies or
     accidents;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Conductor, bus
  Conductor, cable car
  Conductor, train
  Conductor, tram

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

5112  TRANSPORT CONDUCTORS
 
     Transport conductors collect or issue tickets and take care
of safety and  comfort on trains, trams, buses and other public
transport vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  collecting or issuing tickets, passes or fares, or checking
     the validity of ticket& issued previously;

(b)  taking care of sleeping-car on a passenger train, including
     the checking of passengers' tickets, their safety and
     information requests:

(c)  ensuring that safety regulations are respected:

(d)  giving information to passengers, especially about stops and
     connections;

(e)  cooperating with the driver in maintaining time schedules;

(f)  taking appropriate action in case of emergencies or
     accidents;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Conductor, bus
  Conductor, cable car
  Conductor, train
  Conductor, tram

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

7433  TAILORS, DRESSMAKERS AND HATTERS
 

     Tailors, dressmakers and hatters make suits, dresses and
other garments  from textile fabrics, leather or any other
material except fur, carry out  alterations and repairs, or make
hats, or participate in the manufacture of  ready-to-wear
garments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making overcoats, suits, skirts, shirts, blouses, lingerie,
     corsetry and similar garments often to clients' individual
     requirements;

(b)  participating in the manufacture of ready-to-wear clothing;

(c)  making hats;

(d)  altering, restyling and repairing garments;

(e)  making and caring for costumes used in theatrical,
     television and motion picture productions;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Dressmaker
  Milliner
  Tailor
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, sewing - 8263

7412  BAKERS, PASTRY-COOKS AND CONFECTIONERY MAKERS
 

     Bakers, pastry-cooks and confectionery makers make various
kinds of  bread, cakes, and other flour products, as well as
handmade chocolate and  sugar confectionery.

     Tasks include  -

(a)  making bread, cakes, biscuits, pastries, pies and other
     flour products;

(b)  making handmade confectionery from mixtures of sugar,
     chocolate and other ingredients with the help of tools and
     some machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Baker
  Confectioner
  Maker, chocolate
 Pastry-cook
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cook - 5122
  Machine-operator, bakery products 8274
  Machine-operator, bread production 8274
  Machine-operator, chocolate production - 8274

1110  LEGISLATORS 
      Legislators determine, formulate, and direct policies of
national, state,  regional or local governments, and make,
ratify, amend or repeal laws, public  rules and regulations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   presiding over or participating in the proceedings of
      legislative bodies and administrative councils of national,
      state, regional or local governments or legislative
      assemblies;

(b)   determining, formulating, and directing policies of
      national, state, regional or local governments;

(c)   making, ratifying, amending or repealing laws, public rules
      and regulations within the framework of a Constitution
      determining their powers and fields of jurisdiction;

(d)   serving on government administrative boards or official
      committees;

(e)   promoting the interests of the constituencies which they
      represent;

(f)   as members of the government, directing senior
      administrators and officials of government departments and
      agencies in the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Minister, government

President, government

Prime minister

Secretary, government/legislative

Senator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Secretary, government/non legislative - 1120

3474  CLOWNS, MAGICIANS, ACROBATS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS
 
     Clowns, magicians, acrobats and related associate
professionals entertain  audiences in circuses and other places
by performing a variety of acts.   
   
     Tasks include -

(a)   performing amusing antics and telling funny stories;

(b)   performing tricks of illusion and sleight of hand, and
      feats of hypnotism;

(c)   performing difficult and spectacular acrobatics, and
      gymnastic or juggling feats:

(d)   training and performing with animals;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Acrobat	
  Aerialist
  Clown
  Hypnotist
  Magician

5162  POLICE OFFICERS
 
     Police officers maintain law and order and enforce laws and
regulations.

     Tasks include -

(a)  maintaining law and order;

(b)  protecting persons and property from hazards and unlawful
     acts;

(c)  arresting persons for contraventions of the law;

(d)  directing traffic and assuming authority in the event of
     accidents;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Constable
  Patrolman, police
  Patrolwoman, police
  Police officer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Chief Constable, police - 1120
  Commissioner, police - 1120
  Inspector-general, police - 1120

3439  ADMINISTRATIVE ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers administrative associate
professionals not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 343,
Administrative associate professionals.     For instance, here should be classified those who act as
administrative consular officials, undertake executive
secretarial duties for departmental  heads or official
committees, analyse files and other sources of information  and
write reports for responsible administrators, giving relevant
information  and some advice on policy questions, departmental
programmes, administrative  problems and other matters.     In such cases tasks would include:

(a)   acting as administrative consular official;

(b)   undertaking executive secretarial duties for departmental
      heads-
(c)   undertaking executive secretarial duties for official
      committees;

(d)   analysing files and other sources of information, and
      writing reports for responsible administrators;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Executive secretary, committee
  Executive secretary, government administration
  Official, consular

1120  SENIOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS 

      Senior government officials advise governments on policy
matters, oversee the interpretation and implementation of
government policies and legislation  by government departments
and agencies, represent their country abroad and act  on its
behalf, or carry out similar tasks in intergovernmental
organisations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   advising national, state, regional or local governments on
      policy matters;

(b)   advising on the preparation of government budgets, laws and
      regulations, including amendments;

(c)   overseeing the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies and legislation by government
      departments and agencies;

(d)   representing their country abroad;
         
(e)   performing similar tasks in intergovernmental
      organisations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Administrator, government
Administrator, intergovernmental organisation
Ambassador
Consul-general
Secretary, government/non legislative

3223  DIETICIANS AND NUTRITIONISTS 
     Dieticians and nutritionists conduct research and improve
or develop  concepts and operational methods concerning the
preparation and application of  diets for general and therapeutic
purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)   developing nutritional methods and diets and testing them;

(b)   planning and directing the preparation of therapeutic and
      other diets for individuals, groups in hospitals, or
      workers in particular sectors;

(c)   participating in programmes for nutrition education and
      nutrition rehabilitation activities;

(d)   advising on nutrition aspects of community food issues and
      health programmes;

(e)   keeping up with knowledge in related fields and maintaining
      contacts with appropriate professionals;

(f)   giving talks and lectures on diet and nutrition;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Consultant, dietetic/food processing
  Dietician
  Nutritionist

2221  MEDICAL DOCTORS 
     Medical doctors conduct research, improve or develop
concepts, theories  and operational methods, and apply preventive
or curative measures.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research into human disorders and illnesses and
      preventive or curative methods;

(b)   conducting medical examinations and making diagnoses;

(c)   prescribing and giving treatment for diagnosed illnesses,
      disorders or injuries;

(d)   giving specialised medical or surgical treatment for
      particular types of illnesses, disorders or injuries;

(e)   giving advice on and applying preventive medicine methods
      and treatments;

(f)   participating in the development and implementation of
      public health laws and regulations for safeguarding and
      promoting the health of a community;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Doctor, medical
  Ophthalmologist
  Physician
  Psychiatrist
  Surgeon

3414  TRAVEL CONSULTANTS AND ORGANISERS 
     Travel consultants and organisers plan itineraries and
schedule travel  accommodation for customers, and organise or
sell complete group travel tours  for business or vacation.     Tasks include -

(a)   obtaining information about availability, cost and
      convenience of d efferent types of transport and
      accommodation, ascertaining customers' requirements and
      advising them on travel arrangements'.

(b)   making and confirming travel and hotel reservations, giving
      customers tickets and vouchers and receiving payments;

(c)   organising complete group tours for business or vacation
      travel and selling them to groups or individuals;

(d)   helping customers in obtaining necessary certificates and
      travel documents;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Consultant, travel
  Organiser, travel

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Clerk, ticket issuing/travel - 4221
  Clerk, travel agency - 4221
  General manager, travel agency - 1319

3474  CLOWNS, MAGICIANS, ACROBATS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS
 
     Clowns, magicians, acrobats and related associate
professionals entertain  audiences in circuses and other places
by performing a variety of acts.   
   
     Tasks include -

(a)   performing amusing antics and telling funny stories;

(b)   performing tricks of illusion and sleight of hand, and
      feats of hypnotism;

(c)   performing difficult and spectacular acrobatics, and
      gymnastic or juggling feats:

(d)   training and performing with animals;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Acrobat	
  Aerialist
  Clown
  Hypnotist
  Magician

3423  EMPLOYMENT AGENTS AND LABOUR CONTRACTORS
 
     Employment agents and labour contractors match jobseekers
with vacancies,  find workers for employers and contract labour
for particular projects at the  request of enterprises and other,
including government, institutions, or find  places for
jobseekers for a commission.     Tasks include -

(a)   matching jobseekers with vacancies known to government job
      placement offices, or advising on training schemes;

(b)   finding workers for vacant posts against a commission from
      the employer or worker;

(c)   discussing with enterprises/organisations the needed skills
      and other characteristics of the workers to be employed or
      contracted:

(d)   finding workers with appropriate skills, etc., and
      undertaking the necessary formalities according to national
      or international regulations and requirements;

(e)   ensuring that the employment contracts meet legal
      requirements and signing them;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Agent, employment
  Contractor, labour
  Officer, job placement

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

3144  AIR TRAFFIC CONTROLLERS 
     Air traffic controllers direct aircraft movements in
airspace and on the  ground, using radio, radar and lighting
systems, and provide information  relevant to the operation of
aircraft.

     Tasks include -

(a)   directing and controlling aircraft approaching and leaving
      airport and their movement on the ground;

(b)   directing and controlling aircraft operating in designated
      airspace sector;

(c)   examining and approving flight plans;

(d)   informing flight crew and operations staff about weather
      conditions, operational facilities, flight plans and air
      traffic;

(e)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of air tram
      ic control in order to identify and solve problems arising
      in the course of their work;

(f)   initiating and organising emergency, search and rescue
      services and procedures;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Controller, air traffic

4133  TRANSPORT CLERKS
 
     Transport clerks keep records of operational aspects and
coordinate the  timing of train, road and air passenger and
freight transport, and prepare  reports for management.
     Tasks include -

(a)  keeping records of operational aspects, and coordinating the
     timing of passenger and freight transport;

(b)  directing train routings within a division or zone of a
     railway system and keeping related records;
(c)  directing, controlling and keeping records of freight
     handling at a railway yard;
(d)  coordinating and keeping records of operational activities
     concerning road transport, such as allocation and scheduling
     of vehicles and drivers, loading and unloading of vehicles
     and storage of goods in transit;
(e)  coordinating and keeping records of operational activities
     concerning air transport of passengers and freight, such as
     passenger lists and freight manifests;
(f)  preparing reports for management;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Controller, clerical/air transport service
  Controller, clerical/railway service
  Controller, clerical/road transport service
  Dispatcher, clerical/boat
  Dispatcher, clerical/bus
  Dispatcher, clerical/train
  Dispatcher, clerical/truck

4142  MAIL CARRIERS AND SORTING CLERKS
 
     Mail carriers and sorting clerks perform sorting, recording,
delivery and  other duties in connection with mail services from
post offices or related  organisations, as well as from or within
an establishment.
     Tasks include -

(a)  performing mail-handling duties in public post offices;
(b)  sorting and delivering mail to private houses and elsewhere;
(c)  sorting and keeping simple records of incoming and outgoing 
     correspondence and dispatching outgoing mail in various
     establishments;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, mail/dispatch
  Clerk, mail/sorting
  Post carrier
  Postman
  Postwoman

4133  TRANSPORT CLERKS
 
     Transport clerks keep records of operational aspects and
coordinate the  timing of train, road and air passenger and
freight transport, and prepare  reports for management.
     Tasks include -

(a)  keeping records of operational aspects, and coordinating the
     timing of passenger and freight transport;

(b)  directing train routings within a division or zone of a
     railway system and keeping related records;
(c)  directing, controlling and keeping records of freight
     handling at a railway yard;
(d)  coordinating and keeping records of operational activities
     concerning road transport, such as allocation and scheduling
     of vehicles and drivers, loading and unloading of vehicles
     and storage of goods in transit;
(e)  coordinating and keeping records of operational activities
     concerning air transport of passengers and freight, such as
     passenger lists and freight manifests;
(f)  preparing reports for management;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Controller, clerical/air transport service
  Controller, clerical/railway service
  Controller, clerical/road transport service
  Dispatcher, clerical/boat
  Dispatcher, clerical/bus
  Dispatcher, clerical/train
  Dispatcher, clerical/truck

3123  INDUSTRIAL ROBOT  CONTROLLERS
 
     Industrial robot controllers activate industrial robots,
programme or  reprogramme them for specific functions, control
their operation, and provide  basic maintenance and on-the-spot
adjustments.

     Tasks include -

(a)   programming or reprogramming industrial robots for specific
      functions within their range of capabilities;

(b)   activating industrial robots;

(c)   controlling and ensuring the smooth functioning of
      industrial robots;

(d)   trying, by careful and systematic control, to foresee and,
      if possible, to prevent malfunctioning of industrial
      robots;

(e)   providing on-the-spot adjustments of the robot mechanism;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations  classified here:

Controller, robot

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, robotics - 2149
  Operator, robot - 8172
  Technician, engineering/electronics - 3114

5122  COOKS
 
     Cooks plan, organise, prepare and cook foodstuffs in hotels,
restaurants  and other public eating places, on board ships, on
passenger trains and in  private households.

     Tasks include -

(a)  planning meals, preparing and cooking foodstuffs;

(b)  planning, supervising and coordinating work in the kitchen;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Cook
  Cook, head

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

7213  SHEET-METAL WORKERS
 

     Sheet-metal workers make, install and repair articles and
parts of  articles of sheet metal such as sheet steel, copper,
tin, brass, aluminium,  zinc or galvanised iron.

     Tasks include -

(a)  marking sheet metal for cutting and shaping;

(b)  making and repairing household utensils and other articles
     in tin, copper and light alloys, or ornamental articles and
     fittings;

(c)  making and repairing boilers, tanks, vats and similar
     containers;

(d)  installing and repairing sheet-metal parts of vehicles and
     aircraft;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Boiler smith
  Coppersmith
  Sheet-metal worker
  Tinsmith

2451  AUTHORS, JOURNALISTS AND OTHER WRITERS 
     Authors, journalists and other writers write literary works
for  publication or presentation in dramatic form, appraise
merits of artistic  productions, or literary and other works of
art, or write and edit news,  stories and commentaries.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing literary works for publication or
      presentation in dramatic form;

(b)   writing scripts and continuities and preparing programmes
      for stage, film, radio and television productions;

(c)   appraising and writing about merits of literary, musical
      and other works of art, and about artistic performances;

(d)   collecting, reporting and commenting on news and current
      affairs for publication in newspapers and periodicals, or
      for broadcasting by radio or television;

(e)   interviewing politicians and other public figures at press
      conferences and on other occasions, including individual
      interviews recorded for radio or television;

(f)   writing editorials and selecting, revising, arranging and
      editing submitted articles and other material for
      publication in newspapers and periodicals;

(g)   appraising manuscripts submitted for publication in book
      form, making recommendations thereon and editing or
      supervising editing of the material;

(h)   writing advertising copy promoting particular products or
      services;

(i)   selecting, assembling and preparing publicity material
      about business or other organisations for issue through
      press, radio, television and other media;

(j)   designing and writing brochures, handbooks and similar
      technical publications;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Author
  Copywriter, advertising
  Critic
  Editor
  Journalist
  Writer, technical

7211  METAL MOULDERS AND COREMAKERS
 

     Metal moulders and coremakers make moulds and cores for
casting metal.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making moulds by hand or by using auxiliary machines on a
     bench for small metal castings, or on the foundry floor or
     in a pit for large castings;

(b)  making cores for use in metal moulds;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Coremaker, metal
  Moulder, metal castings
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, coremaking/metal - 8211

2429  LEGAL PROFESSIONALS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers legal professionals not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 242, Legal professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who perform
legal functions  other than pleading or prosecuting cases or
presiding over judicial  proceedings.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   giving advice on legal aspects of various personal,
      business and administrative problems;

(b)   drawing up legal documents and contracts;

(c)   arranging property transfers;

(d)   determining, by inquest, the causes of any death not
      obviously due to natural causes;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Coroner
  Jurist, except lawyer or judge
  Notary

2451  AUTHORS, JOURNALISTS AND OTHER WRITERS 
     Authors, journalists and other writers write literary works
for  publication or presentation in dramatic form, appraise
merits of artistic  productions, or literary and other works of
art, or write and edit news,  stories and commentaries.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing literary works for publication or
      presentation in dramatic form;

(b)   writing scripts and continuities and preparing programmes
      for stage, film, radio and television productions;

(c)   appraising and writing about merits of literary, musical
      and other works of art, and about artistic performances;

(d)   collecting, reporting and commenting on news and current
      affairs for publication in newspapers and periodicals, or
      for broadcasting by radio or television;

(e)   interviewing politicians and other public figures at press
      conferences and on other occasions, including individual
      interviews recorded for radio or television;

(f)   writing editorials and selecting, revising, arranging and
      editing submitted articles and other material for
      publication in newspapers and periodicals;

(g)   appraising manuscripts submitted for publication in book
      form, making recommendations thereon and editing or
      supervising editing of the material;

(h)   writing advertising copy promoting particular products or
      services;

(i)   selecting, assembling and preparing publicity material
      about business or other organisations for issue through
      press, radio, television and other media;

(j)   designing and writing brochures, handbooks and similar
      technical publications;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Author
  Copywriter, advertising
  Critic
  Editor
  Journalist
  Writer, technical

5141  HAIRDRESSERS, BARBERS, BEAUTICIANS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Hairdressers, barbers, beauticians and related workers cut
and dress  hair, shave and trim beards, give beauty treatment,
apply cosmetics and  make-up and give other kinds of treatment
to individuals in order to improve their appearance.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting, washing, tinting and waving hair;

(b)  cutting and washing hair and shaving or trimming beards;

(c)  giving scalp treatment;

(d)  fitting wigs according to customers' requirements;

(e)  cleaning and applying creams, lotions and related products
     to face and parts of body;

(f)  giving facial and body massage;

(g)  applying make-up to clients of a beauty parlour;

(h)  applying make-up to actors and other performers;

(i)  cleaning, shaping and polishing finger and toe-nails and
     treating minor ailments of the human foot such as corns,
     calluses or deformed toe-nails;

(j)  attending to clients taking baths and administering
     elementary massage;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Attendant, bath
  Barber
  Beautician
  Chiropodist
  Hairdresser
  Manicurist

1110  LEGISLATORS 
      Legislators determine, formulate, and direct policies of
national, state,  regional or local governments, and make,
ratify, amend or repeal laws, public  rules and regulations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   presiding over or participating in the proceedings of
      legislative bodies and administrative councils of national,
      state, regional or local governments or legislative
      assemblies;

(b)   determining, formulating, and directing policies of
      national, state, regional or local governments;

(c)   making, ratifying, amending or repealing laws, public rules
      and regulations within the framework of a Constitution
      determining their powers and fields of jurisdiction;

(d)   serving on government administrative boards or official
      committees;

(e)   promoting the interests of the constituencies which they
      represent;

(f)   as members of the government, directing senior
      administrators and officials of government departments and
      agencies in the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Minister, government

President, government

Prime minister

Secretary, government/legislative

Senator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Secretary, government/non legislative - 1120

2412  PERSONNEL AND CAREERS PROFESSIONALS 
     Personnel and careers professionals provide professional
business  services related to personnel policies such as employee
recruitment or  development, occupational analyses and vocational
guidance.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising on and performing personnel functions relating to
      employee recruitment, placement, training, promotion,
      compensation, and employee-management relations or other
      areas of personnel policy;

(b)   studying and analysing jobs performed in an establishment
      by various means, including interviews with workers,
      supervisors and management, and writing detailed post, job
      and occupation descriptions from data obtained;

(c)   preparing occupational information booklets or working on
      occupational classification systems;

(d)   advising and working on the foregoing and other aspects of
      job and occupation analyses in such fields as personnel
      administration, manpower research and planning, training,
      or occupational information and vocational guidance;

(e)   studying and advising individuals on employment
      opportunities, career choices and further education or
      training that may be desirable;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Adviser, careers
  Analyst, job
  Analyst, occupational
  Counsellor, vocational guidance

8312  RAILWAY BRAKERS, SIGNALLERS AND SHUNTERS
 

     Railway brakers, signallers and shunters take charge of and
safeguard  railway freight trains during runs, control the
movement of railway traffic by  operating signals, switch rolling
stock and make up trains in railway yards,  make up trains for
hauling in mines and control their movement.

     Tasks include -

(a)  taking charge of and safeguarding freight train during run;

(b)  controlling flow of railway traffic over section of line by
     operating signals and switches from control panel or signal
     box;

(c)  switching and coupling rolling stock in railway yards and
     sidings in accordance with orders about loading, unloading
     and make-up of trains;

(d)  making up trains for hauling by locomotive or cable and
     directing their movement along haulageways in a mine or
     quarry;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Braker, railway
  Shunter, railway
  Signaller, railway

3439  ADMINISTRATIVE ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers administrative associate
professionals not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 343,
Administrative associate professionals.     For instance, here should be classified those who act as
administrative consular officials, undertake executive
secretarial duties for departmental  heads or official
committees, analyse files and other sources of information  and
write reports for responsible administrators, giving relevant
information  and some advice on policy questions, departmental
programmes, administrative  problems and other matters.     In such cases tasks would include:

(a)   acting as administrative consular official;

(b)   undertaking executive secretarial duties for departmental
      heads-
(c)   undertaking executive secretarial duties for official
      committees;

(d)   analysing files and other sources of information, and
      writing reports for responsible administrators;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Executive secretary, committee
  Executive secretary, government administration
  Official, consular

4142  MAIL CARRIERS AND SORTING CLERKS
 
     Mail carriers and sorting clerks perform sorting, recording,
delivery and  other duties in connection with mail services from
post offices or related  organisations, as well as from or within
an establishment.
     Tasks include -

(a)  performing mail-handling duties in public post offices;
(b)  sorting and delivering mail to private houses and elsewhere;
(c)  sorting and keeping simple records of incoming and outgoing 
     correspondence and dispatching outgoing mail in various
     establishments;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, mail/dispatch
  Clerk, mail/sorting
  Post carrier
  Postman
  Postwoman

9211  FARM-HANDS AND LABOURERS
 

     Farm-hands and labourers help with farm work by performing
a variety of  simple farming tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging and shovelling to clear ditches or for other
     purposes;

(b)  loading, unloading various crops and other materials;

(c)  raking, pitching and stacking hay;

(d)  watering and weeding;

(e)  picking fruit, vegetables and various plants;

(f)  helping with planting, harvesting and general farmwork;

(g)  feeding, watering, and cleaning animals and keeping their
     quarters clean;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, farm
  Picker, fruit
Some related occupations classified else where:
  Shepherd - 6121
  Farm worker, skilled/field crops - 6111
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock - 6121

8340  SHIPS' DECK CREWS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Ship's deck crews and related workers carry out deck duties
on board ship  and similar duties on board other water-borne
craft.

     Tasks include -

(a)  standing look-out watches at sea and when entering or
     leaving harbour or other narrow waters'.
(b)  steering ship according to instructions;

(c)  handling mooring lines on board;

(d)  maintaining and, in some cases, operating ship's equipment,
     cargo gear, rigging, life-saving and fire-fighting
     appliances;

(e)  performing deck and hull cleaning, scraping, painting and
     other maintenance duties as required;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Boatswain
  Sailor
  Seaman, able
  Seawoman, able

9322  HAND PACKERS AND OTHER MANUFACTURING LABOURERS
 

     Hand packers and other manufacturing labourers pack
materials or products  by hand and perform a variety of simple
routine tasks connected with  manufacturing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  packing materials or products by hand in boxes, bags,
     cartons, crates, kegs and other containers for shipment or
     storage;

(b)  moving, lifting, carrying, loading, unloading or washing raw
     materials or products, in various manufacturing  industries
     or repair and maintenance establishments;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, manufacturing
  Packer, hand
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, labelling - 8290
  Machine-operator, packing - 8290

7424  BASKETRY WEAVERS, BRUSH MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Basketry weavers, brush makers and related workers make
wicker furniture,  brushes and brooms and weave baskets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making wicker furniture from peeled and softened rattan,
     reeds, rushes, willow branches and similar materials;

(b)  making various kinds of baskets by interlacing osier,
     rattan, reeds, rushes or similar materials;

(c)  selecting and preparing brush materials, such as bristles,
     nylon, fibres and wire, and setting them in brush base;

(d)  selecting and preparing materials, such as broom corn, bass
     and whisker fibre, and fastening them to broom handles;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, basket
  Maker, brush
  Maker, furniture/wicker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, wooden articles 7331
  Machine-operator, woodworking - 8240

8340  SHIPS' DECK CREWS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Ship's deck crews and related workers carry out deck duties
on board ship  and similar duties on board other water-borne
craft.

     Tasks include -

(a)  standing look-out watches at sea and when entering or
     leaving harbour or other narrow waters'.
(b)  steering ship according to instructions;

(c)  handling mooring lines on board;

(d)  maintaining and, in some cases, operating ship's equipment,
     cargo gear, rigging, life-saving and fire-fighting
     appliances;

(e)  performing deck and hull cleaning, scraping, painting and
     other maintenance duties as required;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Boatswain
  Sailor
  Seaman, able
  Seawoman, able

6153  DEEP-SEA FISHERY WORKERS
 
     Deep-sea fishery workers, as members of fishing vessel
crews, catch  deep-sea fish, for sale or delivery on a regular
basis to wholesale buyers,  marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing and repairing nets and other fishing gear and
     equipment;

(b)  operating fishing vessels to, from and at fishing grounds;

(c)  baiting, setting and hauling in fishing gear;

(d)  cleaning, freezing, icing or salting catch on- or offshore;

(e)  delivering or marketing catch;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Fisherman, deep-sea
  Fisherwoman, deep-sea
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/fishing
        - 1221
  General manager, fishing - 1311
  Labourer, fishery - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/fishing - 1210

6154  HUNTERS AND TRAPPERS
 
     Hunters and trappers catch and kill mammals, birds or
reptiles mainly for  meat, skin, feathers and other products, for
sale or delivery on a regular  basis to wholesale buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting traps to catch mammals, birds or reptiles;

(b)  killing trapped or free mammals, birds or reptiles with
     firearms or other weapons;

(c)  skinning and otherwise treating killed mammals, birds or
     reptiles to obtain desired products for sale or delivery.

(d)  delivering or selling trapped live mammals, birds or
     reptiles-,

(e)  repairing and maintaining equipment.

(f)  performing related tasks-,

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Hunter, seal
  Hunter, whale
  Trapper, fur
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/hunting
        - 1221
  General manager, hunting - 1311
  Labourer, hunting - 9213
  Labourer, trapping - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/hunting - 1210

8340  SHIPS' DECK CREWS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Ship's deck crews and related workers carry out deck duties
on board ship  and similar duties on board other water-borne
craft.

     Tasks include -

(a)  standing look-out watches at sea and when entering or
     leaving harbour or other narrow waters'.
(b)  steering ship according to instructions;

(c)  handling mooring lines on board;

(d)  maintaining and, in some cases, operating ship's equipment,
     cargo gear, rigging, life-saving and fire-fighting
     appliances;

(e)  performing deck and hull cleaning, scraping, painting and
     other maintenance duties as required;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Boatswain
  Sailor
  Seaman, able
  Seawoman, able

6153  DEEP-SEA FISHERY WORKERS
 
     Deep-sea fishery workers, as members of fishing vessel
crews, catch  deep-sea fish, for sale or delivery on a regular
basis to wholesale buyers,  marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing and repairing nets and other fishing gear and
     equipment;

(b)  operating fishing vessels to, from and at fishing grounds;

(c)  baiting, setting and hauling in fishing gear;

(d)  cleaning, freezing, icing or salting catch on- or offshore;

(e)  delivering or marketing catch;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Fisherman, deep-sea
  Fisherwoman, deep-sea
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/fishing
        - 1221
  General manager, fishing - 1311
  Labourer, fishery - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/fishing - 1210

6154  HUNTERS AND TRAPPERS
 
     Hunters and trappers catch and kill mammals, birds or
reptiles mainly for  meat, skin, feathers and other products, for
sale or delivery on a regular  basis to wholesale buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting traps to catch mammals, birds or reptiles;

(b)  killing trapped or free mammals, birds or reptiles with
     firearms or other weapons;

(c)  skinning and otherwise treating killed mammals, birds or
     reptiles to obtain desired products for sale or delivery.

(d)  delivering or selling trapped live mammals, birds or
     reptiles-,

(e)  repairing and maintaining equipment.

(f)  performing related tasks-,

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Hunter, seal
  Hunter, whale
  Trapper, fur
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/hunting
        - 1221
  General manager, hunting - 1311
  Labourer, hunting - 9213
  Labourer, trapping - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/hunting - 1210

8340  SHIPS' DECK CREWS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Ship's deck crews and related workers carry out deck duties
on board ship  and similar duties on board other water-borne
craft.

     Tasks include -

(a)  standing look-out watches at sea and when entering or
     leaving harbour or other narrow waters'.
(b)  steering ship according to instructions;

(c)  handling mooring lines on board;

(d)  maintaining and, in some cases, operating ship's equipment,
     cargo gear, rigging, life-saving and fire-fighting
     appliances;

(e)  performing deck and hull cleaning, scraping, painting and
     other maintenance duties as required;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Boatswain
  Sailor
  Seaman, able
  Seawoman, able

2442  SOCIOLOGISTS, ANTHROPOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS
 
     Sociologists, anthropologists and related professionals
investigate and  describe the social structure of societies, the
origin and evolution of  humanity, and the interdependence
between environmental conditions and human  activities, and make
the knowledge obtained available as a basis for policy 
decisions.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research on the origin, development, structure,
      social patterns, organisations and inter-relationships of
      human society;

(b)   tracing the origin and evolution of humanity through the
      study of changing characteristics and cultural and social
      institutions;

(c)   tracing the development of humanity through the material
      remains of its past, such as dwellings, temples, tools,
      pottery, coins, weapons, or sculpture;

(d)   studying physical and climatic aspects of areas and
      'regions, and correlating these findings with the economic,
      social and cultural activities;

(e)   advising on the practical application of these findings in
      the formulation of economic and social policies for
      population groups and regions, and for the development of
      markets;

(f)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Anthropologist
  Archaeologist
  Ethnologist
  Geographer
  Sociologist

2451  AUTHORS, JOURNALISTS AND OTHER WRITERS 
     Authors, journalists and other writers write literary works
for  publication or presentation in dramatic form, appraise
merits of artistic  productions, or literary and other works of
art, or write and edit news,  stories and commentaries.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing literary works for publication or
      presentation in dramatic form;

(b)   writing scripts and continuities and preparing programmes
      for stage, film, radio and television productions;

(c)   appraising and writing about merits of literary, musical
      and other works of art, and about artistic performances;

(d)   collecting, reporting and commenting on news and current
      affairs for publication in newspapers and periodicals, or
      for broadcasting by radio or television;

(e)   interviewing politicians and other public figures at press
      conferences and on other occasions, including individual
      interviews recorded for radio or television;

(f)   writing editorials and selecting, revising, arranging and
      editing submitted articles and other material for
      publication in newspapers and periodicals;

(g)   appraising manuscripts submitted for publication in book
      form, making recommendations thereon and editing or
      supervising editing of the material;

(h)   writing advertising copy promoting particular products or
      services;

(i)   selecting, assembling and preparing publicity material
      about business or other organisations for issue through
      press, radio, television and other media;

(j)   designing and writing brochures, handbooks and similar
      technical publications;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Author
  Copywriter, advertising
  Critic
  Editor
  Journalist
  Writer, technical

7432  WEAVERS, KNITTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

  
     Weavers, knitters and related workers spin and wind yarn by
hand, weave  materials on hand looms, make carpets by using a
knotting technique, knit  garment fabrics by hand or hand-
operated machine or perform similar  manufacturing tasks by hand
or hand-operated machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  spinning and winding yarn by hand;

(b)  drawing warp threads into loom by hand;

(c)  weaving plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpet or
     other fabrics on hand looms;

(d)  making carpets by using a knotting technique;

(e)  knitting garments and other articles on hand-operated
     machine or by hand;

(f)  crocheting or making braid by hand;

(g)  making nets by hand;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Knitter
  Spinner, thread and yarn
  Threader, loom
  Weaver, carpet
  Weaver cloth
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, knitting - 8262
  Machine-operator, weaving - 8262

2213  AGRONOMISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Agronomists and related professionals conduct research and
improve or  develop concepts, theories and operational methods,
and apply scientific  knowledge relating to crop and animal
husbandry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   researching into field crops and grasses and developing new
      or improved cultivation methods;

(b)   researching into horticultural crops and developing new or
      improved cultivation methods;

(c)   researching into animal husbandry and developing new or
      improved breeding methods;

(d)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for tree propagation and culture, or planning and directing
      afforestation and exploitation of forest stands;

(e)   researching into characteristics, use capability and
      productivity of soils and applying findings to development
      of improved agricultural, horticultural and forestry
      practices;

(f)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for wildlife conservation;

(g)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for economic exploitation of grazing lands;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Agronomist
  Animal scientist
  Forestry scientist
  Horticulturist
  Soil scientist

6141  FORESTRY WORKERS AND LOGGERS
 
     Forestry workers and loggers carry out the necessary
operations to  cultivate, conserve and exploit forests, for sale
or delivery of forestry  products on a regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a) establishing and caring for forest stands;

(b)  locating trees to be felled and estimating volume of timber;

(c)  trimming, topping and felling trees and sawing them into
     logs;

(d)  shaping rough wooden products from logs at felling site;

(e)  stacking logs, loading them in chutes or floating them down
     rivers;

(f)  keeping watch to detect forest fires and participating in
     firefighting operations;

(g)  delivering or marketing forestry products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Climber, logging
  Cruiser, timber
  Feller-bucker, tree
  Forestry worker, skilled
  Logger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/forestry
        - 1221
  General manager, forestry - 1311
  Labourer, forestry - 9212
  Managing director, enterprise/forestry - 1210
  Operator, forestry machinery - 8331

4213  BOOKMAKERS AND CROUPIERS
 
     Bookmakers and croupiers determine odds and receive and pay
off bets on  results of sporting or other events, or conduct
games of chance in gambling  establishments.
     Tasks include -

(a)  determining risks to decide odds and to hedge or refuse
     bets;
(b)  preparing and issuing lists of approximate odds;
(c)  distributing cards, rolling dice or spinning a roulette
     wheel:
(d)  explaining and interpreting operating rules of a gambling
     establishment;
(e)  announcing winning numbers, paying winners and collecting
     payments from losers;
(f)  performing related tasks;
(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Bookmaker
  Croupier

6141  FORESTRY WORKERS AND LOGGERS
 
     Forestry workers and loggers carry out the necessary
operations to  cultivate, conserve and exploit forests, for sale
or delivery of forestry  products on a regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a) establishing and caring for forest stands;

(b)  locating trees to be felled and estimating volume of timber;

(c)  trimming, topping and felling trees and sawing them into
     logs;

(d)  shaping rough wooden products from logs at felling site;

(e)  stacking logs, loading them in chutes or floating them down
     rivers;

(f)  keeping watch to detect forest fires and participating in
     firefighting operations;

(g)  delivering or marketing forestry products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Climber, logging
  Cruiser, timber
  Feller-bucker, tree
  Forestry worker, skilled
  Logger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/forestry
        - 1221
  General manager, forestry - 1311
  Labourer, forestry - 9212
  Managing director, enterprise/forestry - 1210
  Operator, forestry machinery - 8331

2113  CHEMISTS 
     Chemists conduct research, improve or develop concepts,
theories and  operational methods, or apply scientific knowledge
relating to chemistry,  mainly to test, develop and improve
materials, and industrial products and  processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods related to chemistry;

(b)   conducting experiments, tests and analyses to investigate
      chemical composition and energy and chemical changes in
      various natural, artificial or synthetic substances,
      materials and products-.

(c)   evaluating results of investigations and experiments and
      deriving conclusions-.

(d)   developing or improving pharmaceutical and other industrial
      materials, products and processes;

(e)   developing quality control procedures for manufacturers or
      users;

(f)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Chemist
  Chemist, pharmaceutical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Biochemist - 2212
  Pharmacist - 2224
  Pharmacologist - 2212

6151  AQUATIC-LIFE CULTIVATION WORKERS
 
     Aquatic-life cultivation workers breed and raise fish and
cultivate  mussels, oysters and other forms of aquatic life, for
sale or delivery on a  regular basis to wholesale buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(b)  purchasing food and other supplies;

(c)  breeding, raising and cultivating fish, mussels, oysters and
     other forms of aquatic life;

(d)  killing and preparing fish and other products for shipment;

(e)  cleaning, freezing, icing or salting catch on- or offshore;

(f)  maintaining buildings, machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Cultivator, algae
  Cultivator, pearl
  Farm worker, skilled/fish
  Farm worker, skilled/seafood on- or offshore;
  Farmer, fish
  Farmer, oyster
  Farmer, seafood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/fishing
        - 1221
  General manager, fishing - 1311
  Labourer, fishery - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/fishing - 1210

6113  GARDENERS, HORTICULTURAL AND NURSERY GROWERS
 
     Gardeners, horticultural and nursery growers plan and carry
out the  necessary operations to grow vegetables by intensive
cultivation techniques,  to cultivate trees, shrubs, flowers and
other plants, and to produce saplings,  bulbs and seeds, for sale
or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers,  marketing
organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of vegetables, horticultural
     and nursery products to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, bulbs, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery-

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     growing vegetables by intensive cultivation, cultivating
     flowers, trees or bushes and harvesting crops;

(e)  producing saplings, bulbs and seeds;

(f)  cultivating flowers, trees, shrubs and other plants in parks
     or public or private gardens;

(g)  growing plants for exhibition or medicinal purposes;

(h)  delivering or marketing products;

(i)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(j)  tending working animals and maintaining buildings, machinery
     and equipment;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Cultivator, mushroom
  Farm worker, skilled/nursery
  Gardener
  Grower, horticultural nursery
  Horticultural grower
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6151  AQUATIC-LIFE CULTIVATION WORKERS
 
     Aquatic-life cultivation workers breed and raise fish and
cultivate  mussels, oysters and other forms of aquatic life, for
sale or delivery on a  regular basis to wholesale buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(b)  purchasing food and other supplies;

(c)  breeding, raising and cultivating fish, mussels, oysters and
     other forms of aquatic life;

(d)  killing and preparing fish and other products for shipment;

(e)  cleaning, freezing, icing or salting catch on- or offshore;

(f)  maintaining buildings, machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Cultivator, algae
  Cultivator, pearl
  Farm worker, skilled/fish
  Farm worker, skilled/seafood on- or offshore;
  Farmer, fish
  Farmer, oyster
  Farmer, seafood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/fishing
        - 1221
  General manager, fishing - 1311
  Labourer, fishery - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/fishing - 1210

2460  RELIGIOUS PROFESSIONALS 
      
     Religious professionals function as perpetrators of the
sacred  traditions, practices and beliefs and celebrate or
administer at the rituals  of initiation, preside over ritual
reenactments of creative, redemptive or  salvatory events, and
offer sacrifices to the gods or to one God.

     Tasks include -

(a)   perpetuating sacred traditions, practices and beliefs;

(d)   conducting religious services, rites and ceremonies;

(c)   undertaking various administrative and social duties,
      including a ending committees and meetings of religious
      organisations;

(d)   providing spiritual and moral guidance in accordance with
      the religion professed;

(e)   propagating religious doctrines in own country or abroad;

(f)   preparing religious sermons and preachings;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bonze
  Imam
  Minister, religion
  Monk, professional
  Nun, professional
  Poojari
  Priest
  Rabbi

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Monk, associate professional - 3480
  Nun, associate professional - 3480
  Preacher, lay - 3480

2431  ARCHIVISTS AND CURATORS 
     Archivists and curators conduct research, collect, appraise
and ensure  the safekeeping and preservation of the contents of
archives and artifacts of  historical, cultural and artistic
interest, and of art and other objects and  organise exhibitions
at museums and art galleries.

     Tasks include -

(a)   researching into, appraising, and developing, organising
      and preserving historically significant and valuable
      documents such as government papers, private papers,
      photographs, sound recordings and films;

(b)   directing or carrying out the preparation of indexes,
      bibliographies, microfilm copies and other reference aids
      to the collected material and making them available to
      users;

(c)   researching into the origin, distribution and use of
      materials and objects of cultural and historical interest;

(d)   organising, developing and maintaining collections of
      artistic, cultural, scientific or historically significant
      items in museums or art galleries;

(e)   directing or undertaking classification and cataloguing of
      museum and art gallery collections and organising
      exhibitions;

(f)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(g)   per-forming related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Archivist
  Curator, art gallery
  Curator, museum

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

2351  EDUCATION METHODS SPECIALISTS 
     Education methods specialists conduct research and develop
or advise on  teaching methods and aids.

     Tasks include -

(a)   researching into current developments curricula, teaching
      methods and other educational practices, and advising on
      necessary changes and possible improvements;

(b)   advising on contents of courses and methods of examination;

(c)   researching into audio-visual and other teaching aids and
      advising on, planning and organising their introduction in
      educational establishments;

(d)   preparing papers and reports;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Adviser, education methods
  Curricula developer
  Specialist, teaching aids

7441  PELT DRESSERS, TANNERS AND FELLMONGERS
 

     Pelt dressers, tanners and fellmongers prepare fur- and
wool-bearing  pelts for making garments and other products, and
make leather from hides and  skins.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sorting and grading pelts, hides and skins;

(b)  removing flesh and fat from pelts before curing;

(c)  removing flesh and hair from hides;

(d)  removing long, coarse hair from pelts and trimming
     underlying hair to even length;

(e)  operating machine to split hides edgeways;

(f)  treating hides to convert them into leather;

(g)  applying dyes to fur pelts;

(h)  dressing and applying dyes and stains to leather;

(i)  stretching and smoothing dressed pelts;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fellmonger
  Grader, pelt
  Tanner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, tanning - 8265

7323  GLASS ENGRAVERS AND ETCHERS
 

     Glass engravers and etchers engrave and etch designs on
glass articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  engraving monograms and ornamental designs on glassware;

(b)  etching decorative designs, calibration markings and other
     figures on glass articles;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cutter, crystal glass
  Engraver, glass
  Etcher, glass

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

7434  FURRIERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Furriers and related workers make, alter, repair and restyle
garments and  other articles made of fur, or participate in the
manufacture of ready-to-wear  fur garments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  choosing, stretching and trimming dressed furs to conform
     to the chosen pattern outline of fur garments or other
     articles;

(b)  making coats, jackets and other fur garments and articles;

(c)  participation in the manufacture of ready-to-wear fur
     clothing;

(d)  reclaiming furs or skins from old coats, gluing fabric to
     interior of fur coats and trimming blocked fur garments;

(e)  altering, restyling and repairing fur garments and other fur
     articles;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furrier
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, sewing/fur - 8263

7435  TEXTILE, LEATHER AND RELATED PATTERN-MAKERS AND CUTTERS
 

     Textile, leather and related pattern-makers and cutters make
patterns and  mark and cut textile, leather and other materials
in the manufacture of  garments, gloves and miscellaneous
products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  drawing and cutting out patterns for making suits, dresses,
     shirts, blouses, gloves, hats and caps and other garments;

(b)  making outlines of patterns on cloth, light leathers or
     other materials to guide cutting;

(c)  cutting material according to pattern outline for making up
     garments, gloves and related items;

(d)  performing pattern-making, marking and cutting tasks in the
     manufacture of other products such as soft furnishings,
     canvas goods and umbrellas;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cutter, garment
 Cutter, glove
  Pattern-maker, fur
  Pattern-maker, garment
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, pattern-making/ textiles - 8269

7322  GLASS-MAKERS, CUTTERS, GRINDERS AND FINISHERS
 

     Glass-makers, cutters, grinders and finishers blow, mould,
press and roll  shapes from molten glass and cut, grind and
polish glass.

     Tasks include -

(a)  shaping molten glass by means of blowpipe, hand moulding,
     heating and bending;

(b)  heating, moulding and pressing optical glass to make lens
     blanks;

(c)  grinding and polishing lens blanks;

(d)  grinding and bevelling edges of glass;

(e)  cutting sheet glass with hand tools and sawing prisms and
     other shapes from optical glass blocks;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blower, glass
  Cutter, glass
  Finisher, glass
  Grinder, glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Furnace-operator, glass production - 8131

7435  TEXTILE, LEATHER AND RELATED PATTERN-MAKERS AND CUTTERS
 

     Textile, leather and related pattern-makers and cutters make
patterns and  mark and cut textile, leather and other materials
in the manufacture of  garments, gloves and miscellaneous
products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  drawing and cutting out patterns for making suits, dresses,
     shirts, blouses, gloves, hats and caps and other garments;

(b)  making outlines of patterns on cloth, light leathers or
     other materials to guide cutting;

(c)  cutting material according to pattern outline for making up
     garments, gloves and related items;

(d)  performing pattern-making, marking and cutting tasks in the
     manufacture of other products such as soft furnishings,
     canvas goods and umbrellas;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cutter, garment
 Cutter, glove
  Pattern-maker, fur
  Pattern-maker, garment
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, pattern-making/ textiles - 8269

7323  GLASS ENGRAVERS AND ETCHERS
 

     Glass engravers and etchers engrave and etch designs on
glass articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  engraving monograms and ornamental designs on glassware;

(b)  etching decorative designs, calibration markings and other
     figures on glass articles;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cutter, crystal glass
  Engraver, glass
  Etcher, glass

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

7435  TEXTILE, LEATHER AND RELATED PATTERN-MAKERS AND CUTTERS
 

     Textile, leather and related pattern-makers and cutters make
patterns and  mark and cut textile, leather and other materials
in the manufacture of  garments, gloves and miscellaneous
products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  drawing and cutting out patterns for making suits, dresses,
     shirts, blouses, gloves, hats and caps and other garments;

(b)  making outlines of patterns on cloth, light leathers or
     other materials to guide cutting;

(c)  cutting material according to pattern outline for making up
     garments, gloves and related items;

(d)  performing pattern-making, marking and cutting tasks in the
     manufacture of other products such as soft furnishings,
     canvas goods and umbrellas;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cutter, garment
 Cutter, glove
  Pattern-maker, fur
  Pattern-maker, garment
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, pattern-making/ textiles - 8269

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

6141  FORESTRY WORKERS AND LOGGERS
 
     Forestry workers and loggers carry out the necessary
operations to  cultivate, conserve and exploit forests, for sale
or delivery of forestry  products on a regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a) establishing and caring for forest stands;

(b)  locating trees to be felled and estimating volume of timber;

(c)  trimming, topping and felling trees and sawing them into
     logs;

(d)  shaping rough wooden products from logs at felling site;

(e)  stacking logs, loading them in chutes or floating them down
     rivers;

(f)  keeping watch to detect forest fires and participating in
     firefighting operations;

(g)  delivering or marketing forestry products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Climber, logging
  Cruiser, timber
  Feller-bucker, tree
  Forestry worker, skilled
  Logger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/forestry
        - 1221
  General manager, forestry - 1311
  Labourer, forestry - 9212
  Managing director, enterprise/forestry - 1210
  Operator, forestry machinery - 8331

7313  JEWELLERY AND PRECIOUS-METAL WORKERS
 

     Jewellery and precious-metal workers make and repair
jewellery and  precious metalware, cut and set gems and engrave
designs on jewellery and  precious metal articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  casting jewellery and other non-ferrous metal articles by
     hand;

(b)  making complete jewellery articles such as rings, brooches
     and bracelets;

(c)  cutting and polishing gems and setting them in jewellery
     articles;

(d)  making and repairing precious metalware;

(e)  rolling and beating precious metals; engraving letters and
     designs on jewellery and precious metalware;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, jewellery
  Goldsmith
  Jeweller
  Setter, gem
  Silversmith

6141  FORESTRY WORKERS AND LOGGERS
 
     Forestry workers and loggers carry out the necessary
operations to  cultivate, conserve and exploit forests, for sale
or delivery of forestry  products on a regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a) establishing and caring for forest stands;

(b)  locating trees to be felled and estimating volume of timber;

(c)  trimming, topping and felling trees and sawing them into
     logs;

(d)  shaping rough wooden products from logs at felling site;

(e)  stacking logs, loading them in chutes or floating them down
     rivers;

(f)  keeping watch to detect forest fires and participating in
     firefighting operations;

(g)  delivering or marketing forestry products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Climber, logging
  Cruiser, timber
  Feller-bucker, tree
  Forestry worker, skilled
  Logger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/forestry
        - 1221
  General manager, forestry - 1311
  Labourer, forestry - 9212
  Managing director, enterprise/forestry - 1210
  Operator, forestry machinery - 8331

7435  TEXTILE, LEATHER AND RELATED PATTERN-MAKERS AND CUTTERS
 

     Textile, leather and related pattern-makers and cutters make
patterns and  mark and cut textile, leather and other materials
in the manufacture of  garments, gloves and miscellaneous
products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  drawing and cutting out patterns for making suits, dresses,
     shirts, blouses, gloves, hats and caps and other garments;

(b)  making outlines of patterns on cloth, light leathers or
     other materials to guide cutting;

(c)  cutting material according to pattern outline for making up
     garments, gloves and related items;

(d)  performing pattern-making, marking and cutting tasks in the
     manufacture of other products such as soft furnishings,
     canvas goods and umbrellas;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cutter, garment
 Cutter, glove
  Pattern-maker, fur
  Pattern-maker, garment
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, pattern-making/ textiles - 8269

6141  FORESTRY WORKERS AND LOGGERS
 
     Forestry workers and loggers carry out the necessary
operations to  cultivate, conserve and exploit forests, for sale
or delivery of forestry  products on a regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a) establishing and caring for forest stands;

(b)  locating trees to be felled and estimating volume of timber;

(c)  trimming, topping and felling trees and sawing them into
     logs;

(d)  shaping rough wooden products from logs at felling site;

(e)  stacking logs, loading them in chutes or floating them down
     rivers;

(f)  keeping watch to detect forest fires and participating in
     firefighting operations;

(g)  delivering or marketing forestry products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Climber, logging
  Cruiser, timber
  Feller-bucker, tree
  Forestry worker, skilled
  Logger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/forestry
        - 1221
  General manager, forestry - 1311
  Labourer, forestry - 9212
  Managing director, enterprise/forestry - 1210
  Operator, forestry machinery - 8331

7346  SILK-SCREEN, BLOCK AND TEXTILE PRINTERS
 
 

     Silk-screen, block and textile printers cut stencils for use
in  silk-screen printing and print on paper, metal, textiles and
other materials  with silk-screens, blocks of rubber, wood or
other materials, or engraved  printing rollers.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting stencils for silk-screen printing;

(b)  printing on paper, metal, textiles and other materials by
     silk-screen process;

(c)  printing designs and patterns on cloth or wallpaper with
     engraved blocks or machines equipped with engraved rollers;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cutter, stencil/silk-screen
  Printer, block
  Printer, silk-screen
  Printer, textile

7113  STONE SPLITTERS, CUTTERS AND CARVERS
 



     Stone splitters, cutters and carvers break quarried stone
slabs or  blocks, or by using hand or hand-powered tools cut,
shape and finish stone for  building, ornamental, monumental and
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving wedges into quarried stone to break it into slabs
     or blocks;

(b)  selecting and grading slabs and blocks of granite, marble,
     and other stone;

(c)  cutting, shaping and finishing building and monumental stone
     such as granite or marble by using hand or hand-powered
     tools;

(d)  making patterns and marking shapes on stone for subsequent
     sawing, planing, drilling and other dressing and cutting
     operations;

(e)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     blocks used for monuments or memorials;

(f)  setting stone in the erection of monuments and memorials;

(g)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     used for decorative facings on buildings-

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carver, stone
  Cutter, stone
  Mason, monument
  Splitter, stone
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, carving/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, cutting/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, splitting/stone 8112
  Sculptor - 2452
  Stonemason, construction - 7122

9211  FARM-HANDS AND LABOURERS
 

     Farm-hands and labourers help with farm work by performing
a variety of  simple farming tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging and shovelling to clear ditches or for other
     purposes;

(b)  loading, unloading various crops and other materials;

(c)  raking, pitching and stacking hay;

(d)  watering and weeding;

(e)  picking fruit, vegetables and various plants;

(f)  helping with planting, harvesting and general farmwork;

(g)  feeding, watering, and cleaning animals and keeping their
     quarters clean;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, farm
  Picker, fruit
Some related occupations classified else where:
  Shepherd - 6121
  Farm worker, skilled/field crops - 6111
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock - 6121

7412  BAKERS, PASTRY-COOKS AND CONFECTIONERY MAKERS
 

     Bakers, pastry-cooks and confectionery makers make various
kinds of  bread, cakes, and other flour products, as well as
handmade chocolate and  sugar confectionery.

     Tasks include  -

(a)  making bread, cakes, biscuits, pastries, pies and other
     flour products;

(b)  making handmade confectionery from mixtures of sugar,
     chocolate and other ingredients with the help of tools and
     some machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Baker
  Confectioner
  Maker, chocolate
 Pastry-cook
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cook - 5122
  Machine-operator, bakery products 8274
  Machine-operator, bread production 8274
  Machine-operator, chocolate production - 8274

7435  TEXTILE, LEATHER AND RELATED PATTERN-MAKERS AND CUTTERS
 

     Textile, leather and related pattern-makers and cutters make
patterns and  mark and cut textile, leather and other materials
in the manufacture of  garments, gloves and miscellaneous
products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  drawing and cutting out patterns for making suits, dresses,
     shirts, blouses, gloves, hats and caps and other garments;

(b)  making outlines of patterns on cloth, light leathers or
     other materials to guide cutting;

(c)  cutting material according to pattern outline for making up
     garments, gloves and related items;

(d)  performing pattern-making, marking and cutting tasks in the
     manufacture of other products such as soft furnishings,
     canvas goods and umbrellas;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cutter, garment
 Cutter, glove
  Pattern-maker, fur
  Pattern-maker, garment
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, pattern-making/ textiles - 8269

6141  FORESTRY WORKERS AND LOGGERS
 
     Forestry workers and loggers carry out the necessary
operations to  cultivate, conserve and exploit forests, for sale
or delivery of forestry  products on a regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a) establishing and caring for forest stands;

(b)  locating trees to be felled and estimating volume of timber;

(c)  trimming, topping and felling trees and sawing them into
     logs;

(d)  shaping rough wooden products from logs at felling site;

(e)  stacking logs, loading them in chutes or floating them down
     rivers;

(f)  keeping watch to detect forest fires and participating in
     firefighting operations;

(g)  delivering or marketing forestry products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Climber, logging
  Cruiser, timber
  Feller-bucker, tree
  Forestry worker, skilled
  Logger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/forestry
        - 1221
  General manager, forestry - 1311
  Labourer, forestry - 9212
  Managing director, enterprise/forestry - 1210
  Operator, forestry machinery - 8331

7416  TOBACCO PREPARERS AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Tobacco preparers and tobacco products makers prepare
tobacco leaves and  make various tobacco products.

     Tasks  include -

(a)  grading cured tobacco leaves by type, quality and locality
     where grown;

(b)  mixing tobacco leaves according to formula to obtain a blend
     of distinct flavour;

(c)  tending vacuum container which moistens tobacco for further
     processing;

(d)  removing midribs and stalks from tobacco leaves and
     shredding tobacco;

(e)  making cigars, cigarettes, snuff and other tobacco products
     by hand or with simple machines;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, tobacco
  Maker, cigar
  Maker, cigarette
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, cigar production - 8279
  Machine-operator, cigarette production - 8279

7435  TEXTILE, LEATHER AND RELATED PATTERN-MAKERS AND CUTTERS
 

     Textile, leather and related pattern-makers and cutters make
patterns and  mark and cut textile, leather and other materials
in the manufacture of  garments, gloves and miscellaneous
products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  drawing and cutting out patterns for making suits, dresses,
     shirts, blouses, gloves, hats and caps and other garments;

(b)  making outlines of patterns on cloth, light leathers or
     other materials to guide cutting;

(c)  cutting material according to pattern outline for making up
     garments, gloves and related items;

(d)  performing pattern-making, marking and cutting tasks in the
     manufacture of other products such as soft furnishings,
     canvas goods and umbrellas;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cutter, garment
 Cutter, glove
  Pattern-maker, fur
  Pattern-maker, garment
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, pattern-making/ textiles - 8269

7113  STONE SPLITTERS, CUTTERS AND CARVERS
 



     Stone splitters, cutters and carvers break quarried stone
slabs or  blocks, or by using hand or hand-powered tools cut,
shape and finish stone for  building, ornamental, monumental and
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving wedges into quarried stone to break it into slabs
     or blocks;

(b)  selecting and grading slabs and blocks of granite, marble,
     and other stone;

(c)  cutting, shaping and finishing building and monumental stone
     such as granite or marble by using hand or hand-powered
     tools;

(d)  making patterns and marking shapes on stone for subsequent
     sawing, planing, drilling and other dressing and cutting
     operations;

(e)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     blocks used for monuments or memorials;

(f)  setting stone in the erection of monuments and memorials;

(g)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     used for decorative facings on buildings-

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carver, stone
  Cutter, stone
  Mason, monument
  Splitter, stone
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, carving/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, cutting/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, splitting/stone 8112
  Sculptor - 2452
  Stonemason, construction - 7122

7313  JEWELLERY AND PRECIOUS-METAL WORKERS
 

     Jewellery and precious-metal workers make and repair
jewellery and  precious metalware, cut and set gems and engrave
designs on jewellery and  precious metal articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  casting jewellery and other non-ferrous metal articles by
     hand;

(b)  making complete jewellery articles such as rings, brooches
     and bracelets;

(c)  cutting and polishing gems and setting them in jewellery
     articles;

(d)  making and repairing precious metalware;

(e)  rolling and beating precious metals; engraving letters and
     designs on jewellery and precious metalware;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, jewellery
  Goldsmith
  Jeweller
  Setter, gem
  Silversmith

7132  FLOOR LAYERS AND TILE SETTERS
 

     Floor layers and tile setters install, maintain and repair
parquet and  other kinds of flooring, or they cover floors, walls
and other surfaces with tiles or mosaic panels for decorative or
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing floor areas for covering with parquet, tiles or
     other materials;

(b)  assembling parquetry pieces or other materials and laying
     them on floors according to design and other specifications;

(c)  preparing wall areas for covering with tiles or other
     materials for decorative or other purposes such as
     acoustical insulation;

(d)  setting tiles and constructing and laying mosaic panels to
     walls, floors and other surfaces;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Parquetry worker 
 Setter, marble 
 Setter, tile

7323  GLASS ENGRAVERS AND ETCHERS
 

     Glass engravers and etchers engrave and etch designs on
glass articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  engraving monograms and ornamental designs on glassware;

(b)  etching decorative designs, calibration markings and other
     figures on glass articles;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cutter, crystal glass
  Engraver, glass
  Etcher, glass

8112  MINERAL-ORE- AND STONE-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mineral-ore- and stone-processing-plant operators operate
and monitor  machinery and equipment for processing mineral ore
and stone.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which crushes and breaks
     lumps of minerals and stones to required size;

(b)  operating and monitoring washing, separating, leaching,
     precipitating, filtering, extracting and combining equipment
     to wash mineral ores in order to remove waste material;

(c)  combining mineral ores with solvents to facilitate further
     processing;

(d)  separating metal or mineral concentrates from ore or
     alluvial deposits by thickening, flotation, gravity
     separation, filtration, or magnetic or electrostatic
     separation;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Floatation worker, minerals
  Machine-operator, crushing/mineral ore
  Machine-operator, milling/minerals
  Machine-operator, stone processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cutter, stone - 7113
  Splitter, stone - 7113

3475  ATHLETES, SPORTSPERSONS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Athletes, sportspersons and related associate professionals
participate  in competitive sporting events, conduct sports
training, compile rules  concerning sporting events, and control
the progress of these events.     Tasks include -

(a)   participating in competitive sporting events;

(b)   conducting sports training to develop ability in and
      knowledge of the sport;

(c)   compiling rules concerning the conduct of sporting
      competitions, and controlling the progress of these events;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Athlete
  Boxer
  Coach, sports
  Official, sports
  Wrestler

2211  BIOLOGISTS, BOTANISTS, ZOOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Biologists, botanists, zoologists and related professionals
conduct  research, improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and  apply scientific knowledge relating to
biology, microbiology, bacteriology,  cytology, genetics,
zoology, botany and ecology, especially in the fields of 
medicine and agriculture.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   conducting field and laboratory experiments concerning all
      forms of life by identifying and classifying human, animal,
      insect or plant specimens, and studying their origin,
      development, chemical and physical form, structure,
      composition, and life and reproductive processes;

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure, development and characteristics of micro-
      organisms such as bacteria or viruses;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the factors
      involved in the origin, development and transmission of
      hereditary characteristics in human beings, animals or
      plants;

(e)   studying all forms of plant life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(f)   studying all forms of animal life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(g)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure and functions of living cells, and the influence
      of physical and chemical factors upon normal and abnormal
      cells;

(h)   studying inter-relationships of animal and plant life and
      the environmental factors involved, and giving professional
      advice to related disciplines;

(i)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bacteriologist
  Biologist
  Botanist
  Ecologist
  Microbiologist
  Zoologist

2454  CHOREOGRAPHERS AND DANCERS 
      
     Choreographers and dancers conceive and create or perform
dances.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and creating dances, which often convey a story,
      theme, idea or mood, by a pattern of steps, movements and
      gestures;

(b)   performing dances as a soloist, with a partner or as a
      member of a dancing group;

(c)   performing related tasks;

(d)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Choreographer
  Dancer, ballet

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Dancer, night-club - 3473

3473  STREET, NIGHT-CLUB AND RELATED MUSICIANS, SINGERS AND
DANCERS
 
     Street, night-club and related musicians, singers and
dancers perform  music, or sing or dance on the streets, in
night-clubs, circuses and related  places.     Tasks include -

(a)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist, or
      as a member of a popular music orchestra of circus, or
      other bands;

(b)   singing popular arias as a soloist, or as a member of vocal
      groups in night-clubs, or on the streets;

(c)   performing dances as a soloist, with a partner or as a
      member of dancing groups, in places such as circuses,
      night-clubs or on the streets;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Band leader
  Dancer, night-club
  Musician, night club
  Singer, street
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Conductor, orchestra - 2453
  Dancer, ballet - 2454
  Instrumentalist - 2453
  Singer, choir - 2453

7344  PHOTOGRAPHIC AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Photographic and related workers develop and process
photographic film  and make prints or slides.

     Tasks include -

(a)  processing black and white or colour film and plates to
     obtain negatives or transparent positives;

(b)  printing black and white or colour photographs;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Darkroom worker, film developing/colour photography
  Developer, film/colour
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, film developing 8224

2131  COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGNERS AND ANALYSTS 
     Computer systems designers and analysts conduct research,
improve or  develop computing concepts and operational methods,
and  advise on or engage  in their practical application.

     Tasks include:

(a)   researching into the principles and operational methods of
      computers and computer-based systems for information
      communication and processing, planning, design, process
      control and production; development and maintenance of
      computer software, as well as data structures and
      databases, algorithms, artificial intelligence and
      robotics;

(b)   maintaining data dictionary and management systems of
      databases to ensure validity and safety of data;

(c)   contributing to and keeping up with technical developments
      of computers, peripherals, computing methods and software,
      their potential and limitations;


(d)   analysing computer users' requirements, by consultation,
to
      determine hardware and software configurations and
      development needs and preparing cost-benefit analyses-

(e)   writing programming specifications and preparing technical
      reports and instruction manuals specifying methods of
      operation and maintenance of the computer hardware and
      software configurations:.

(f)   designing, writing, maintaining and updating software which
      controls the overall functioning of computers and which
      links hardware and computer applications software

(g)   designing and implementing communication networks between
      different computer installations

(h)   developing improved methods and instruments, including
      computer languages, for writing, documenting and
      maintaining computer software,

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Analyst, communications/computers
  Analyst, database/computers
  Analyst, systems/computers
  Database administrator
  Designer, systems/computers
  Engineer, computer systems

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, computer applications 2139
  Technician, computer: 3121

1229  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED 
      This unit group covers department managers not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 122, Production and operations
department managers.

      For instance here should be classified those who plan,
direct and  coordinate activities of the enterprise or
organisation concerning government  administrative and other
operations, public or private education services,  health and
social work services, recreational, cultural, and sporting events

and services, and operations of extra-territorial organisations
and bodies.

      In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating government operations
      concerning public service activities, such as control of
      the money supply or taxation schemes, various government
      business regulations, as well as civil service
      administration and related activities;

(b)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of foreign affairs and
      public order and safety activities;

(c)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of government-funded
      social security schemes;

(d)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      public or private education;

(e)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      health and social services;

(f)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      recreational, cultural and sporting operations and events;

(g)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the operations of extra-territorial organisations and
      bodies;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

Dean

Department manager, production and operations/extra-
         territorial organisations

Department manager, production and operations/health

Department manager, production and operations/recreation

Head teacher


Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, education - 1319

General manager, recreation - 1319

Managing director, enterprise/health 1210

Managing director, organisation/extraterritorial
         organisations - 1210


8340  SHIPS' DECK CREWS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Ship's deck crews and related workers carry out deck duties
on board ship  and similar duties on board other water-borne
craft.

     Tasks include -

(a)  standing look-out watches at sea and when entering or
     leaving harbour or other narrow waters'.
(b)  steering ship according to instructions;

(c)  handling mooring lines on board;

(d)  maintaining and, in some cases, operating ship's equipment,
     cargo gear, rigging, life-saving and fire-fighting
     appliances;

(e)  performing deck and hull cleaning, scraping, painting and
     other maintenance duties as required;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Boatswain
  Sailor
  Seaman, able
  Seawoman, able

7324  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED DECORATIVE PAINTERS
 

     Glass, ceramics and related decorative painters decorate
articles made of  wood, metal, textiles, glass, ceramics and
other materials, and plan, lay out  and paint letters and designs
to make signs.

     Tasks include -

(a)  painting designs on articles with a brush, by spraying, or
     by transferring designs using stencils, transfers, rubber
     stamps and other means;

(b)  applying, for decorative purposes, paint, glaze, enamel,
     stain, varnish, lacquer and similar materials on articles
     by spraying or dipping;

(c)  coating mirror glass with silver solutions;

(d)  laying out and painting letters and designs to make signs;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, glass
  Painter, decorative
  Sign-writer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, painting/ceramics - 8131
  Machine-operator, painting/glass - 8131
  Painter, building - 7141
  Painter, manufactured articles - 7142
  Painter, vehicle - 7142

3471  DECORATORS AND COMMERCIAL DESIGNERS
 
     Decorators and commercial designers apply artistic
techniques to product  design, interior decoration and sales
promotion.     Tasks include -

(a)   designing industrial and commercial products, including new
      types and styles of clothing and accessories, and
      endeavouring to harmonise aesthetic considerations with
      technical and other requirements;

(b)   creating interior decorating schemes and planning
      furnishings for homes. public buildings, ships and   other
      places;

(c)   designing and painting stage scenery;

(d)   tattooing decorative designs on client's skin;

(e)   creating and executing artistic effects for use in show
      windows and other display areas;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Decorator, display
  Decorator, interior
  Designer, fashion
  Designer, industrial products
  Tattooist
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Architect, interior - 2141
  Artist, commercial - 2452

7324  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED DECORATIVE PAINTERS
 

     Glass, ceramics and related decorative painters decorate
articles made of  wood, metal, textiles, glass, ceramics and
other materials, and plan, lay out  and paint letters and designs
to make signs.

     Tasks include -

(a)  painting designs on articles with a brush, by spraying, or
     by transferring designs using stencils, transfers, rubber
     stamps and other means;

(b)  applying, for decorative purposes, paint, glaze, enamel,
     stain, varnish, lacquer and similar materials on articles
     by spraying or dipping;

(c)  coating mirror glass with silver solutions;

(d)  laying out and painting letters and designs to make signs;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, glass
  Painter, decorative
  Sign-writer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, painting/ceramics - 8131
  Machine-operator, painting/glass - 8131
  Painter, building - 7141
  Painter, manufactured articles - 7142
  Painter, vehicle - 7142

7441  PELT DRESSERS, TANNERS AND FELLMONGERS
 

     Pelt dressers, tanners and fellmongers prepare fur- and
wool-bearing  pelts for making garments and other products, and
make leather from hides and  skins.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sorting and grading pelts, hides and skins;

(b)  removing flesh and fat from pelts before curing;

(c)  removing flesh and hair from hides;

(d)  removing long, coarse hair from pelts and trimming
     underlying hair to even length;

(e)  operating machine to split hides edgeways;

(f)  treating hides to convert them into leather;

(g)  applying dyes to fur pelts;

(h)  dressing and applying dyes and stains to leather;

(i)  stretching and smoothing dressed pelts;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fellmonger
  Grader, pelt
  Tanner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, tanning - 8265

9151  MESSENGERS, PACKAGE AND LUGGAGE PORTERS AND DELIVERERS
 

     Messengers, package and luggage porters and deliverers carry
and deliver  messages, packages and other items within an
establishment or between  establishments, to households and
elsewhere, or carry luggage especially at  hotels, stations and
airports.

     Tasks include -

(a)  delivering messages, packages and other items within an
     establishment or between establishments, or elsewhere;

(b)  performing the duties of a post-runner;

(c)  delivering various goods to and from enterprises, shops,
     households and other places;

(d)  carrying and delivering luggage at hotels, stations,
     airports, and elsewhere;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Deliverer, hand/newspapers
  Messenger
  Porter, luggage
  Post-runner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Postman - 4142
  Postwoman - 4142

2122  STATISTICIANS 
     Statisticians conduct research, improve or develop
mathematical and other  aspects of statistical concepts, theories
and operational methods and  techniques, and advise on or engage
in their practical application,in such  fields as business or
medicine as well as. in other areas of natural, social  or life
sciences.

     Tasks include:

(a)   studying, improving and developing statistical theories and
        methodologies-.

(b)   planning and organising surveys and other statistical
      collections, and designing questionnaires;

(c)   evaluating, processing, analysing, and interpreting
      statistical data and preparing them for publication;

(d)   advising on or applying various data collection methods and
      statistical methods and techniques, and determining
      reliability of findings, especially in such fields as
      business or medicine as well as in other areas of natural,
      social or life sciences:.

(e)   preparing scientific papers and reports-.

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Demographer
  Statistician
  Statistician, applied statistics
  Statistician, mathematical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Assistant, statistical: 3434
  Clerk, statistical: 4122

7129  BUILDING FRAME AND RELATED TRADES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers building frame and related trades
workers not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 712, Building
frame and related trades  workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who perform
miscellaneous  construction and building maintenance tasks.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  performing miscellaneous construction and building
     maintenance work on structures such as office buildings,
     apartment houses, factories and similar establishments in
     good repair;

(b)  performing construction, maintenance or repair work at
     unusual heights;

(c)  erecting temporary metal or wooden scaffolding on building
     sites;

(d)  demolishing buildings and other structures;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Demolition worker
  Housebuilder, non-traditional materials
  Scaffolder
  Steeplejack
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Labourer, construction/buildings 9313
  Labourer, demolition - 9313

5220  SHOP SALESPERSONS AND DEMONSTRATORS
 
     Shop salespersons and demonstrators demonstrate and sell
goods in  wholesale establishments to retailers and large-scale
consumers or to  customers in retail establishments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  moving goods to be sold from storage area to sales area and
     placing them on display;

(b)  ascertaining nature and quality of the product desired by
     the customer;

(c)  assisting customer in making a choice;

(d)  quoting prices, credit terms and discounts;

(e)  packing and arranging delivery of goods, if necessary;

(f)  writing bill, invoice, docket or receipt;

(g)  verifying cashier's receipt, if necessary;

(h)  giving demonstrations of articles on sale in order to inform
     customers about their characteristics and mode of use, as
     well as to stimulate buying interest;

(i)  performing related tasks;

(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Demonstrator
  Salesperson, retail establishment
  Salesperson, wholesale establishment
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Salesperson, kiosk - 5230
  Salesperson, market - 5230
  Salesperson, street stall - 5230

2222  DENTISTS 
     Dentists conduct research, improve or develop concepts,
theories and  operational methods, and apply medical knowledge
in the field of dentistry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research into dental and related disorders and
      illnesses and preventive or curative methods;

(b)   making diagnoses, advising on and giving necessary dental
      treatment;

(c)   giving surgical, medical and other forms of treatment for
      particular types of dental and oral diseases and disorders;

(d)   participating in public action to maintain or improve
      standards of oral health and dental care:

(e)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(f)   performing related tasks,

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Dentist
  Dentist, pedodontistry
  Surgeon, oral/dentistry

1231  FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION DEPARTMENT MANAGERS 
      Finance and administration department managers plan, direct
and  coordinate the internal administration or financial
operations of the  enterprise or organisation, under the broad
guidance of the directors and  chief executives, and in
consultation with managers of other departments or  sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating the internal
      administration or financial operations of the enterprise or
      organisation;

(b)   assessing the financial situation of the enterprise or
      organisation, preparing budgets and overseeing various
      financial operations;

(c)   controlling expenditure and ensuring the efficient use of
      resources;

(d)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(e)   planning and directing daily operations;

(f)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(g)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the organisation or with outside bodies;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Department manager, administration

Department manager, finance

1234  ADVERTISING AND PUBLIC RELATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS 
      Advertising and public relations department managers plan,
direct and  coordinate the advertising, public relations and
public information activities  of the enterprise or organisation,
under the broad guidance of the directors  and chief executives,
and in consultation with managers of other departments  or
sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating the advertising and
      public relations activities of the enterprise or
      organisation;

(b)   negotiating advertising contracts with officials of
      newspapers, radio and television stations, sports and
      cultural organisations and advertising agencies;

(c)   planning and managing information programmes to inform
      legislators, the mass media and the general public about
      the plans, accomplishments and points of view of the
      enterprise or organisation;

(d)   planning and managing fund-raising activities for
      educational, humanitarian and other non-profit-making
      organisations;

(e)   controlling expenditure and ensuring the efficient use of
      resources;

(f)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(g)   planning and directing daily operations;

(h)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(i)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the organisation or with outside bodies;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Department manager, advertising

Department manager, public relations


1231  FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION DEPARTMENT MANAGERS 
      Finance and administration department managers plan, direct
and  coordinate the internal administration or financial
operations of the  enterprise or organisation, under the broad
guidance of the directors and  chief executives, and in
consultation with managers of other departments or  sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating the internal
      administration or financial operations of the enterprise or
      organisation;

(b)   assessing the financial situation of the enterprise or
      organisation, preparing budgets and overseeing various
      financial operations;

(c)   controlling expenditure and ensuring the efficient use of
      resources;

(d)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(e)   planning and directing daily operations;

(f)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(g)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the organisation or with outside bodies;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Department manager, administration

Department manager, finance

1236  COMPUTING SERVICES DEPARTMENT MANAGERS 
      Computing services department managers plan, direct and
coordinate the  computing services of the enterprise or
organisation, under the broad guidance  of the directors and
chief executives, and in consultation with managers of  other
departments or sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating the computing services
      of the enterprise or organisation;

(b)   directing the selection, installation, use and maintenance
      of computing equipment and software and the purchase of
      externally provided computing services;

(c)   planning the overall data processing policies of the
      enterprise or organisation and coordinating the search for
      alternatives;

(d)   controlling expenditure and ensuring the efficient use of
      resources;

(e)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;   planning and directing daily operations;

(g)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(h)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the organisation or with outside bodies;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 Department manager, computing services 

1235  SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION DEPARTMENT MANAGERS 
      Supply and distribution department managers plan, direct
and coordinate  the supply and distribution activities of the
enterprise or organisation,  under the broad guidance of the
directors and chief executives, and in  consultation with
managers of other departments or sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating the supply, storage
      and distribution activities of the enterprise or
      organisation;

(b)   negotiating purchase contracts, agreeing a suitable price
      with suppliers and ensuring the quality of the goods
      purchased;

(c)   planning and installing systems for inventory control;

(d)   controlling expenditure and ensuring the efficient use of
      resources;

(e)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(f)   planning and directing daily operations;

(g)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(h)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the organisation or with outside bodies;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 Department manager, distribution

 Department manager, supplies 

1231  FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION DEPARTMENT MANAGERS 
      Finance and administration department managers plan, direct
and  coordinate the internal administration or financial
operations of the  enterprise or organisation, under the broad
guidance of the directors and  chief executives, and in
consultation with managers of other departments or  sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating the internal
      administration or financial operations of the enterprise or
      organisation;

(b)   assessing the financial situation of the enterprise or
      organisation, preparing budgets and overseeing various
      financial operations;

(c)   controlling expenditure and ensuring the efficient use of
      resources;

(d)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(e)   planning and directing daily operations;

(f)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(g)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the organisation or with outside bodies;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Department manager, administration

Department manager, finance

1232  PERSONNEL AND INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS 
      Personnel and industrial relations department managers
plan, direct and  coordinate policies concerning personnel and
the industrial relations  activities of the enterprise or
organisation, under the broad guidance of the  directors and
chief executives, and in consultation with managers of other 
departments or sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating policies concerning
      personnel and the industrial relations activities of the
      enterprise or organisation;

(b)   planning and organising procedures for recruitment,
      training, promotion, determination of wage structures and
      negotiations about wages, liaison and consultation with
      workers, and related personnel matters;

(c)   overseeing safety, health and related programmes and
      activities, with the participation of all concerned;

(d)   controlling expenditure and ensuring the efficient use of
      resources;

(e)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(f)   planning and directing daily operations;

(g)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(h)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the organisation or with outside bodies;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Department manager, industrial relations

Department manager, personnel

1233  SALES AND MARKETING DEPARTMENT MANAGERS 
      Sales and marketing department managers plan, direct and
coordinate the  sales and marketing activities of the enterprise
or organisation, under the  broad guidance of the directors and
chief executives, and in consultation with  managers of other
departments or sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating the sales and
      marketing activities of the enterprise or organisation;

(b)   planning and organising special sales and marketing
      programmes based on sales records and market assessments;

(c)   determining price lists, discount and delivery terms, sales
      promotion budgets, sales methods, special incentives and
      special campaigns;

(d)   controlling expenditure and ensuring the efficient use of
      resources;

(e)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(f)   planning and directing daily operations;

(g)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(h)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the organisation or with outside bodies;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Department manager, marketing

Department manager, sales

1232  PERSONNEL AND INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS 
      Personnel and industrial relations department managers
plan, direct and  coordinate policies concerning personnel and
the industrial relations  activities of the enterprise or
organisation, under the broad guidance of the  directors and
chief executives, and in consultation with managers of other 
departments or sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating policies concerning
      personnel and the industrial relations activities of the
      enterprise or organisation;

(b)   planning and organising procedures for recruitment,
      training, promotion, determination of wage structures and
      negotiations about wages, liaison and consultation with
      workers, and related personnel matters;

(c)   overseeing safety, health and related programmes and
      activities, with the participation of all concerned;

(d)   controlling expenditure and ensuring the efficient use of
      resources;

(e)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(f)   planning and directing daily operations;

(g)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(h)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the organisation or with outside bodies;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Department manager, industrial relations

Department manager, personnel

1221  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS IN
      AGRICULTURE, HUNTING,  FORESTRY AND FISHING 
      Production and operations department managers in
agriculture, hunting,  forestry and fishing plan, direct and
coordinate those activities of farming  and related enterprises
which are concerned with the production of goods,  under the
broad guidance of the directors and chief executives, and in 
consultation with managers of other departments or sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the production of goods;

(b)   ensuring the efficient use of resources and the fulfilment
      of production quotas;

(c)   planning and directing daily operations;

(d)   controlling expenditure;

(e)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(f)   overseeing the application of work safety and related
      procedures;

(g)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(h)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the enterprise or with outside bodies;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

Department manager, production and
         operations/agriculture

Department manager, production and operations/fishing

Department manager, production and operations/forestry

Department manager, production and operations/hunting

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Farmer, field crop - 6111

Farmer, livestock - 6121

General manager, agriculture - 1311

Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

1227  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS IN BUSINESS
SERVICES 
      Production and operations department managers in business
services plan,  direct and coordinate those activities of the
enterprise which are concerned  with providing external business
services, under the broad guidance of the  directors and chief
executives, and in consultation with managers of other 
departments or sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the provision of external business services such as
      banking, insurance, real estate, data processing, market
      research, accounting, architecture, engineering, building
      cleaning, technical testing and analysis, advertising or
      packaging;

(b)   ensuring the efficient use of resources and the fulfilment
      of schedules;

(c)   planning and directing daily operations;

(d)   controlling expenditure;

(e)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(f)   overseeing the application of work safety and related
      procedures;

(g)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(h)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the enterprise or with outside bodies;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Department manager, production and operations/business
         services

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, business services 1317

Managing director, enterprise/business services - 1210

1228  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS IN PERSONAL
CARE,  CLEANING, AND RELATED SERVICES 
      Production and operations department managers in personal
care, cleaning,  and related services plan, direct and coordinate
those activities of the  enterprise which are concerned with
providing relevant services, under the  broad guidance of the
directors and chief executives, and in consultation with 
managers of other departments or sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the provision of relevant services;

(b)   ensuring the efficient use of resources and the fulfilment
      of schedules;

(c)   planning and directing daily trade operations;

(d)   controlling expenditure;

(e)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(f)   overseeing the application of work safety and related
      procedures;

(g)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff,

(h)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the enterprise or with outside bodies;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Department manager, production and operations/cleaning

Department manager, production and operations/personal
         care

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, personal care - 1318

Managing director, enterprise/cleaning - 1210

1226  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS IN TRANSPORT,
STORAGE AND  COMMUNICATIONS 
      Production and operations department managers in transport,
storage and  communications plan, direct and coordinate those
activities of the enterprise  which are concerned with providing
relevant services, under the broad guidance  of the directors and
chief executives, and in consultation with managers of  other
departments or sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the provision of relevant services;

(b)   ensuring the efficient use of resources and the fulfilment
      of service quotas;

(c)   planning and directing daily service operations;

(d)   controlling expenditure;

(e)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(f)   overseeing the application of work safety and related
      procedures;

(g)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(h)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the enterprise or with outside bodies;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Department manager, production and
         operations/communications

Department manager, production and operations/storage

Department manager, production and operations/transport

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, storage - 1316

Managing director, enterprise/communications - 1210

Managing director, enterprise/transport - 1210

1223  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS IN
CONSTRUCTION 
      Production and operations department managers in
construction plan,  direct and coordinate those activities of the
enterprise which are concerned  with construction work, under the
broad guidance of the directors and chief  executives, and in
consultation with managers of other departments or sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      construction work;

(b)   ensuring the efficient use of resources and the fulfilment
      of production quotas;

(c)   planning and directing daily production operations;

(d)   controlling expenditure;

(e)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(f)   overseeing the application of work safety and related
      procedures;

(g)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(h)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the enterprise or with outside bodies;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j) supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Department manager, production and
         operations/construction

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, construction - 1313

Managing director, enterprise/construction - 1210

1229  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED 
      This unit group covers department managers not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 122, Production and operations
department managers.

      For instance here should be classified those who plan,
direct and  coordinate activities of the enterprise or
organisation concerning government  administrative and other
operations, public or private education services,  health and
social work services, recreational, cultural, and sporting events

and services, and operations of extra-territorial organisations
and bodies.

      In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating government operations
      concerning public service activities, such as control of
      the money supply or taxation schemes, various government
      business regulations, as well as civil service
      administration and related activities;

(b)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of foreign affairs and
      public order and safety activities;

(c)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of government-funded
      social security schemes;

(d)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      public or private education;

(e)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      health and social services;

(f)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      recreational, cultural and sporting operations and events;

(g)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the operations of extra-territorial organisations and
      bodies;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

Dean

Department manager, production and operations/extra-
         territorial organisations

Department manager, production and operations/health

Department manager, production and operations/recreation

Head teacher


Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, education - 1319

General manager, recreation - 1319

Managing director, enterprise/health 1210

Managing director, organisation/extraterritorial
         organisations - 1210


1221  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS IN
      AGRICULTURE, HUNTING,  FORESTRY AND FISHING 
      Production and operations department managers in
agriculture, hunting,  forestry and fishing plan, direct and
coordinate those activities of farming  and related enterprises
which are concerned with the production of goods,  under the
broad guidance of the directors and chief executives, and in 
consultation with managers of other departments or sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the production of goods;

(b)   ensuring the efficient use of resources and the fulfilment
      of production quotas;

(c)   planning and directing daily operations;

(d)   controlling expenditure;

(e)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(f)   overseeing the application of work safety and related
      procedures;

(g)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(h)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the enterprise or with outside bodies;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

Department manager, production and
         operations/agriculture

Department manager, production and operations/fishing

Department manager, production and operations/forestry

Department manager, production and operations/hunting

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Farmer, field crop - 6111

Farmer, livestock - 6121

General manager, agriculture - 1311

Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

1229  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED 
      This unit group covers department managers not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 122, Production and operations
department managers.

      For instance here should be classified those who plan,
direct and  coordinate activities of the enterprise or
organisation concerning government  administrative and other
operations, public or private education services,  health and
social work services, recreational, cultural, and sporting events

and services, and operations of extra-territorial organisations
and bodies.

      In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating government operations
      concerning public service activities, such as control of
      the money supply or taxation schemes, various government
      business regulations, as well as civil service
      administration and related activities;

(b)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of foreign affairs and
      public order and safety activities;

(c)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of government-funded
      social security schemes;

(d)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      public or private education;

(e)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      health and social services;

(f)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      recreational, cultural and sporting operations and events;

(g)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the operations of extra-territorial organisations and
      bodies;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

Dean

Department manager, production and operations/extra-
         territorial organisations

Department manager, production and operations/health

Department manager, production and operations/recreation

Head teacher


Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, education - 1319

General manager, recreation - 1319

Managing director, enterprise/health 1210

Managing director, organisation/extraterritorial
         organisations - 1210


1225  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS IN
RESTAURANTS AND HOTELS 
      Production and operations department managers in
restaurants and hotels  plan, direct and coordinate those
activities of the enterprise which are  concerned with the
provision of accommodation, catering and related services,  under
the broad guidance of the directors and chief executives, and in 
consultation with managers of other departments or sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the provision of accommodation, catering and related
      services;

(b)   ensuring the efficient use of resources and the fulfilment
      of schedules;

(c)   planning and directing daily operations,

(d)   controlling expenditure;

(e)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(f)   overseeing the application of work safety and related
      procedures;

(g)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(h)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the enterprise or with outside bodies;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Department manager, production and operations/hotel

Department manager, production and operations/restaurant

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, restaurant - 1315

Managing director, enterprise/hotel - 1210

1221  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS IN
      AGRICULTURE, HUNTING,  FORESTRY AND FISHING 
      Production and operations department managers in
agriculture, hunting,  forestry and fishing plan, direct and
coordinate those activities of farming  and related enterprises
which are concerned with the production of goods,  under the
broad guidance of the directors and chief executives, and in 
consultation with managers of other departments or sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the production of goods;

(b)   ensuring the efficient use of resources and the fulfilment
      of production quotas;

(c)   planning and directing daily operations;

(d)   controlling expenditure;

(e)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(f)   overseeing the application of work safety and related
      procedures;

(g)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(h)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the enterprise or with outside bodies;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

Department manager, production and
         operations/agriculture

Department manager, production and operations/fishing

Department manager, production and operations/forestry

Department manager, production and operations/hunting

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Farmer, field crop - 6111

Farmer, livestock - 6121

General manager, agriculture - 1311

Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

1222  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS IN
MANUFACTURING 
      Production and operations department managers in
manufacturing plan,  direct and coordinate those activities of
the enterprise which are concerned  with the production of goods,
under the broad guidance of the directors and  chief executives,
and in consultation with managers of other departments or 
sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the manufacture of goods, or extraction of solid minerals
      from underground and surface mines and quarries, or the
      production and distribution of electricity, gas and water;

(b)   ensuring the efficient use of resources and the fulfilment
      of production quotas;

(c)   planning and directing daily production operations;

(d)   controlling expenditure;

(e)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(f)   overseeing the application of work safety and related
      procedures;

(g)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(h)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the enterprise or with outside bodies;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Department manager, production and
         operations/manufacturing

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, manufacturing - 1312

Managing director, enterprise/manufacturing - 1210

1228  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS IN PERSONAL
CARE,  CLEANING, AND RELATED SERVICES 
      Production and operations department managers in personal
care, cleaning,  and related services plan, direct and coordinate
those activities of the  enterprise which are concerned with
providing relevant services, under the  broad guidance of the
directors and chief executives, and in consultation with 
managers of other departments or sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the provision of relevant services;

(b)   ensuring the efficient use of resources and the fulfilment
      of schedules;

(c)   planning and directing daily trade operations;

(d)   controlling expenditure;

(e)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(f)   overseeing the application of work safety and related
      procedures;

(g)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff,

(h)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the enterprise or with outside bodies;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Department manager, production and operations/cleaning

Department manager, production and operations/personal
         care

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, personal care - 1318

Managing director, enterprise/cleaning - 1210

1229  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED 
      This unit group covers department managers not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 122, Production and operations
department managers.

      For instance here should be classified those who plan,
direct and  coordinate activities of the enterprise or
organisation concerning government  administrative and other
operations, public or private education services,  health and
social work services, recreational, cultural, and sporting events

and services, and operations of extra-territorial organisations
and bodies.

      In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating government operations
      concerning public service activities, such as control of
      the money supply or taxation schemes, various government
      business regulations, as well as civil service
      administration and related activities;

(b)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of foreign affairs and
      public order and safety activities;

(c)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of government-funded
      social security schemes;

(d)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      public or private education;

(e)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      health and social services;

(f)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      recreational, cultural and sporting operations and events;

(g)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the operations of extra-territorial organisations and
      bodies;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

Dean

Department manager, production and operations/extra-
         territorial organisations

Department manager, production and operations/health

Department manager, production and operations/recreation

Head teacher


Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, education - 1319

General manager, recreation - 1319

Managing director, enterprise/health 1210

Managing director, organisation/extraterritorial
         organisations - 1210


1225  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS IN
RESTAURANTS AND HOTELS 
      Production and operations department managers in
restaurants and hotels  plan, direct and coordinate those
activities of the enterprise which are  concerned with the
provision of accommodation, catering and related services,  under
the broad guidance of the directors and chief executives, and in 
consultation with managers of other departments or sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the provision of accommodation, catering and related
      services;

(b)   ensuring the efficient use of resources and the fulfilment
      of schedules;

(c)   planning and directing daily operations,

(d)   controlling expenditure;

(e)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(f)   overseeing the application of work safety and related
      procedures;

(g)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(h)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the enterprise or with outside bodies;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Department manager, production and operations/hotel

Department manager, production and operations/restaurant

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, restaurant - 1315

Managing director, enterprise/hotel - 1210

1224  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS IN WHOLESALE
AND RETAIL  TRADE 
      Production and operations department managers in wholesale
and retail  trade plan, direct and coordinate those activities
of the enterprise which are  concerned with trade, under the
broad guidance of the directors and chief  executives, and in
consultation with managers of other departments or sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      trade carried out by the enterprise;

(b)   ensuring the efficient use of resources and the fulfilment
      of trade quotas;

(c)   planning and directing daily trade operations;

(d)   controlling expenditure;

(e)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(f)   overseeing the application of work safety and related
      procedures,

(g)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(h)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the enterprise or with outside bodies;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Department manager, production and operations/retail
         trade

Department manager, production and operations/wholesale
         trade

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, retail trade - 1314

Managing director, enterprise/wholesale trade - 1210

1229  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED 
      This unit group covers department managers not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 122, Production and operations
department managers.

      For instance here should be classified those who plan,
direct and  coordinate activities of the enterprise or
organisation concerning government  administrative and other
operations, public or private education services,  health and
social work services, recreational, cultural, and sporting events

and services, and operations of extra-territorial organisations
and bodies.

      In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating government operations
      concerning public service activities, such as control of
      the money supply or taxation schemes, various government
      business regulations, as well as civil service
      administration and related activities;

(b)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of foreign affairs and
      public order and safety activities;

(c)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of government-funded
      social security schemes;

(d)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      public or private education;

(e)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      health and social services;

(f)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      recreational, cultural and sporting operations and events;

(g)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the operations of extra-territorial organisations and
      bodies;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

Dean

Department manager, production and operations/extra-
         territorial organisations

Department manager, production and operations/health

Department manager, production and operations/recreation

Head teacher


Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, education - 1319

General manager, recreation - 1319

Managing director, enterprise/health 1210

Managing director, organisation/extraterritorial
         organisations - 1210


1226  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS IN TRANSPORT,
STORAGE AND  COMMUNICATIONS 
      Production and operations department managers in transport,
storage and  communications plan, direct and coordinate those
activities of the enterprise  which are concerned with providing
relevant services, under the broad guidance  of the directors and
chief executives, and in consultation with managers of  other
departments or sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the provision of relevant services;

(b)   ensuring the efficient use of resources and the fulfilment
      of service quotas;

(c)   planning and directing daily service operations;

(d)   controlling expenditure;

(e)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(f)   overseeing the application of work safety and related
      procedures;

(g)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(h)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the enterprise or with outside bodies;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Department manager, production and
         operations/communications

Department manager, production and operations/storage

Department manager, production and operations/transport

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, storage - 1316

Managing director, enterprise/communications - 1210

Managing director, enterprise/transport - 1210

1229  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED 
      This unit group covers department managers not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 122, Production and operations
department managers.

      For instance here should be classified those who plan,
direct and  coordinate activities of the enterprise or
organisation concerning government  administrative and other
operations, public or private education services,  health and
social work services, recreational, cultural, and sporting events

and services, and operations of extra-territorial organisations
and bodies.

      In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating government operations
      concerning public service activities, such as control of
      the money supply or taxation schemes, various government
      business regulations, as well as civil service
      administration and related activities;

(b)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of foreign affairs and
      public order and safety activities;

(c)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of government-funded
      social security schemes;

(d)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      public or private education;

(e)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      health and social services;

(f)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      recreational, cultural and sporting operations and events;

(g)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the operations of extra-territorial organisations and
      bodies;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

Dean

Department manager, production and operations/extra-
         territorial organisations

Department manager, production and operations/health

Department manager, production and operations/recreation

Head teacher


Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, education - 1319

General manager, recreation - 1319

Managing director, enterprise/health 1210

Managing director, organisation/extraterritorial
         organisations - 1210


1224  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS IN WHOLESALE
AND RETAIL  TRADE 
      Production and operations department managers in wholesale
and retail  trade plan, direct and coordinate those activities
of the enterprise which are  concerned with trade, under the
broad guidance of the directors and chief  executives, and in
consultation with managers of other departments or sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      trade carried out by the enterprise;

(b)   ensuring the efficient use of resources and the fulfilment
      of trade quotas;

(c)   planning and directing daily trade operations;

(d)   controlling expenditure;

(e)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(f)   overseeing the application of work safety and related
      procedures,

(g)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(h)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the enterprise or with outside bodies;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Department manager, production and operations/retail
         trade

Department manager, production and operations/wholesale
         trade

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, retail trade - 1314

Managing director, enterprise/wholesale trade - 1210

1234  ADVERTISING AND PUBLIC RELATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS 
      Advertising and public relations department managers plan,
direct and  coordinate the advertising, public relations and
public information activities  of the enterprise or organisation,
under the broad guidance of the directors  and chief executives,
and in consultation with managers of other departments  or
sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating the advertising and
      public relations activities of the enterprise or
      organisation;

(b)   negotiating advertising contracts with officials of
      newspapers, radio and television stations, sports and
      cultural organisations and advertising agencies;

(c)   planning and managing information programmes to inform
      legislators, the mass media and the general public about
      the plans, accomplishments and points of view of the
      enterprise or organisation;

(d)   planning and managing fund-raising activities for
      educational, humanitarian and other non-profit-making
      organisations;

(e)   controlling expenditure and ensuring the efficient use of
      resources;

(f)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(g)   planning and directing daily operations;

(h)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(i)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the organisation or with outside bodies;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Department manager, advertising

Department manager, public relations


1235  SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION DEPARTMENT MANAGERS 
      Supply and distribution department managers plan, direct
and coordinate  the supply and distribution activities of the
enterprise or organisation,  under the broad guidance of the
directors and chief executives, and in  consultation with
managers of other departments or sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating the supply, storage
      and distribution activities of the enterprise or
      organisation;

(b)   negotiating purchase contracts, agreeing a suitable price
      with suppliers and ensuring the quality of the goods
      purchased;

(c)   planning and installing systems for inventory control;

(d)   controlling expenditure and ensuring the efficient use of
      resources;

(e)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(f)   planning and directing daily operations;

(g)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(h)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the organisation or with outside bodies;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 Department manager, distribution

 Department manager, supplies 

1237  RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT MANAGERS
 
      Research and development department managers plan, direct
and coordinate  the research and development activities of the
enterprise or organisation,  under the broad guidance of the
directors and chief executives, and in  consultation with
managers of other departments or sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating research and
      development activities, in-house or commissioned from
      external research organisations, to develop new or improved
      technical processes, products or utilisation of materials
      for the enterprise or organisation;

(b)   planning the overall research and development programme of
      the enterprise or organisation, specifying goals and
      budgetary requirements;

(c)   controlling expenditure and ensuring the efficient use of
      resources;

(d)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(e)   planning and directing daily operations;

(f)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(g)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the organisation or with outside bodies;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 Department manager, research and development 

1233  SALES AND MARKETING DEPARTMENT MANAGERS 
      Sales and marketing department managers plan, direct and
coordinate the  sales and marketing activities of the enterprise
or organisation, under the  broad guidance of the directors and
chief executives, and in consultation with  managers of other
departments or sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating the sales and
      marketing activities of the enterprise or organisation;

(b)   planning and organising special sales and marketing
      programmes based on sales records and market assessments;

(c)   determining price lists, discount and delivery terms, sales
      promotion budgets, sales methods, special incentives and
      special campaigns;

(d)   controlling expenditure and ensuring the efficient use of
      resources;

(e)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(f)   planning and directing daily operations;

(g)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(h)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the organisation or with outside bodies;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Department manager, marketing

Department manager, sales

1235  SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION DEPARTMENT MANAGERS 
      Supply and distribution department managers plan, direct
and coordinate  the supply and distribution activities of the
enterprise or organisation,  under the broad guidance of the
directors and chief executives, and in  consultation with
managers of other departments or sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating the supply, storage
      and distribution activities of the enterprise or
      organisation;

(b)   negotiating purchase contracts, agreeing a suitable price
      with suppliers and ensuring the quality of the goods
      purchased;

(c)   planning and installing systems for inventory control;

(d)   controlling expenditure and ensuring the efficient use of
      resources;

(e)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(f)   planning and directing daily operations;

(g)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(h)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the organisation or with outside bodies;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 Department manager, distribution

 Department manager, supplies 

2221  MEDICAL DOCTORS 
     Medical doctors conduct research, improve or develop
concepts, theories  and operational methods, and apply preventive
or curative measures.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research into human disorders and illnesses and
      preventive or curative methods;

(b)   conducting medical examinations and making diagnoses;

(c)   prescribing and giving treatment for diagnosed illnesses,
      disorders or injuries;

(d)   giving specialised medical or surgical treatment for
      particular types of illnesses, disorders or injuries;

(e)   giving advice on and applying preventive medicine methods
      and treatments;

(f)   participating in the development and implementation of
      public health laws and regulations for safeguarding and
      promoting the health of a community;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Doctor, medical
  Ophthalmologist
  Physician
  Psychiatrist
  Surgeon

2145  MECHANICAL ENGINEERS 
     Mechanical engineers conduct research and advise on, design,
and direct  production of machines, machinery and industrial
plant, equipment and systems,  and advise on and direct their
functioning, maintenance and repairs, or study  and advise on
technological aspects of particular materials, products or 
processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   advising on and designing machinery and tools for
      manufacturing, mining, construction, agricultural work, and
      other industrial purposes;

(b)   advising on and designing steam, internal combustion and
      other non-electric motors and engines used for propulsion
      of railway locomotives, road vehicles or aircraft, or for
      driving industrial or other machinery;

(c)   advising on and designing ships' propulsion systems, power
      plant, heating and ventilation systems, steering gear,
      pumps, and other mechanical equipment;

(d)   advising on and designing hulls and superstructures of
      ships and other vessels;

(e)   advising on and designing airframes, undercarriages and
      other equipment for aircraft;

(f)   advising on and designing road vehicle bodies, suspension
      systems, brakes and other components;

(g)   advising on and designing heating, ventilation and
      refrigeration systems and equipment;

(h)   advising on and designing mechanical plant and equipment
      for the release, control and utilisation of nuclear energy;

(i)   advising on and designing non-electrical parts of apparatus
      or products such as word processors, computers, precision
      instruments, cameras and projectors, etc.;

(j)   specifying and checking production or installation methods
      and work of agricultural and other machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment or
      systems;

(k)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      efficient functioning and safety of machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment, or
      systems;

(l)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(m)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      machines, machinery, tools, motors, engines, industrial
      plant, equipment, or systems;

(n)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(o)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;


(p)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(q)   performing related tasks;

(r)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, aeronautical
  Engineer, marine
  Engineer, mechanical
  Engineer, mechanical/agriculture
  Engineer, nuclear power
  Technologist, engineering/mechanical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, ship: 3141

3471  DECORATORS AND COMMERCIAL DESIGNERS
 
     Decorators and commercial designers apply artistic
techniques to product  design, interior decoration and sales
promotion.     Tasks include -

(a)   designing industrial and commercial products, including new
      types and styles of clothing and accessories, and
      endeavouring to harmonise aesthetic considerations with
      technical and other requirements;

(b)   creating interior decorating schemes and planning
      furnishings for homes. public buildings, ships and   other
      places;

(c)   designing and painting stage scenery;

(d)   tattooing decorative designs on client's skin;

(e)   creating and executing artistic effects for use in show
      windows and other display areas;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Decorator, display
  Decorator, interior
  Designer, fashion
  Designer, industrial products
  Tattooist
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Architect, interior - 2141
  Artist, commercial - 2452

2145  MECHANICAL ENGINEERS 
     Mechanical engineers conduct research and advise on, design,
and direct  production of machines, machinery and industrial
plant, equipment and systems,  and advise on and direct their
functioning, maintenance and repairs, or study  and advise on
technological aspects of particular materials, products or 
processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   advising on and designing machinery and tools for
      manufacturing, mining, construction, agricultural work, and
      other industrial purposes;

(b)   advising on and designing steam, internal combustion and
      other non-electric motors and engines used for propulsion
      of railway locomotives, road vehicles or aircraft, or for
      driving industrial or other machinery;

(c)   advising on and designing ships' propulsion systems, power
      plant, heating and ventilation systems, steering gear,
      pumps, and other mechanical equipment;

(d)   advising on and designing hulls and superstructures of
      ships and other vessels;

(e)   advising on and designing airframes, undercarriages and
      other equipment for aircraft;

(f)   advising on and designing road vehicle bodies, suspension
      systems, brakes and other components;

(g)   advising on and designing heating, ventilation and
      refrigeration systems and equipment;

(h)   advising on and designing mechanical plant and equipment
      for the release, control and utilisation of nuclear energy;

(i)   advising on and designing non-electrical parts of apparatus
      or products such as word processors, computers, precision
      instruments, cameras and projectors, etc.;

(j)   specifying and checking production or installation methods
      and work of agricultural and other machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment or
      systems;

(k)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      efficient functioning and safety of machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment, or
      systems;

(l)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(m)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      machines, machinery, tools, motors, engines, industrial
      plant, equipment, or systems;

(n)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(o)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;


(p)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(q)   performing related tasks;

(r)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, aeronautical
  Engineer, marine
  Engineer, mechanical
  Engineer, mechanical/agriculture
  Engineer, nuclear power
  Technologist, engineering/mechanical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, ship: 3141

3471  DECORATORS AND COMMERCIAL DESIGNERS
 
     Decorators and commercial designers apply artistic
techniques to product  design, interior decoration and sales
promotion.     Tasks include -

(a)   designing industrial and commercial products, including new
      types and styles of clothing and accessories, and
      endeavouring to harmonise aesthetic considerations with
      technical and other requirements;

(b)   creating interior decorating schemes and planning
      furnishings for homes. public buildings, ships and   other
      places;

(c)   designing and painting stage scenery;

(d)   tattooing decorative designs on client's skin;

(e)   creating and executing artistic effects for use in show
      windows and other display areas;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Decorator, display
  Decorator, interior
  Designer, fashion
  Designer, industrial products
  Tattooist
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Architect, interior - 2141
  Artist, commercial - 2452

2131  COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGNERS AND ANALYSTS 
     Computer systems designers and analysts conduct research,
improve or  develop computing concepts and operational methods,
and  advise on or engage  in their practical application.

     Tasks include:

(a)   researching into the principles and operational methods of
      computers and computer-based systems for information
      communication and processing, planning, design, process
      control and production; development and maintenance of
      computer software, as well as data structures and
      databases, algorithms, artificial intelligence and
      robotics;

(b)   maintaining data dictionary and management systems of
      databases to ensure validity and safety of data;

(c)   contributing to and keeping up with technical developments
      of computers, peripherals, computing methods and software,
      their potential and limitations;


(d)   analysing computer users' requirements, by consultation,
to
      determine hardware and software configurations and
      development needs and preparing cost-benefit analyses-

(e)   writing programming specifications and preparing technical
      reports and instruction manuals specifying methods of
      operation and maintenance of the computer hardware and
      software configurations:.

(f)   designing, writing, maintaining and updating software which
      controls the overall functioning of computers and which
      links hardware and computer applications software

(g)   designing and implementing communication networks between
      different computer installations

(h)   developing improved methods and instruments, including
      computer languages, for writing, documenting and
      maintaining computer software,

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Analyst, communications/computers
  Analyst, database/computers
  Analyst, systems/computers
  Database administrator
  Designer, systems/computers
  Engineer, computer systems

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, computer applications 2139
  Technician, computer: 3121

2149  ARCHITECTS, ENGINEERS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS NOT
ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers architects, engineers and related
professionals  not classified elsewhere in Minor group 214,
Architects, engineers and related  professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  conducting research, advising on or developing
procedures concerning  efficiency of production and work
organisation, as well as those who perform  quantity surveying
and those who study and advise on technological aspects of 
particular materials, products and manufacturing processes.

     In such cases tasks would include

(a)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising  on planning and production methods;

(b)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising on methods to promote the efficient, safe and
      economic utilisation of personnel, material and equipment;

(c)   making recommendations regarding methods of work and
      sequence of operations and supervising their
      implementation;

(d)   making recommendations and supervising time and motion
      aspects of work organisation;

(e)   advising on most efficient layout of plant or
      establishment;

(f)   identifying potential hazards and introducing safety
      procedures and devices;

(g)   preparing and monitoring cost estimates and bills of
      quantities for architectural and construction projects;

(h)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular manufacturing processes, such as those related
      to glass, ceramics, textiles, leather products, wood, and
      printing;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, industrial efficiency
  Engineer, production
  Engineer, time and motion study
  Surveyor, quantity
  Technologist, textiles

3471  DECORATORS AND COMMERCIAL DESIGNERS
 
     Decorators and commercial designers apply artistic
techniques to product  design, interior decoration and sales
promotion.     Tasks include -

(a)   designing industrial and commercial products, including new
      types and styles of clothing and accessories, and
      endeavouring to harmonise aesthetic considerations with
      technical and other requirements;

(b)   creating interior decorating schemes and planning
      furnishings for homes. public buildings, ships and   other
      places;

(c)   designing and painting stage scenery;

(d)   tattooing decorative designs on client's skin;

(e)   creating and executing artistic effects for use in show
      windows and other display areas;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Decorator, display
  Decorator, interior
  Designer, fashion
  Designer, industrial products
  Tattooist
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Architect, interior - 2141
  Artist, commercial - 2452

3450  POLICE INSPECTORS AND DETECTIVES
 
     Police inspectors and detectives investigate facts and
circumstances  relating to crimes committed and obtain
information not readily available or  apparent concerning
establishments or the circumstances and behaviour of  persons,
mostly in order to prevent crimes.
     
     Tasks include -

(a)   establishing contacts and sources of information about
      crimes planned or committed, in order to prevent crimes or
      identify culprits;

(b)   investigating events and circumstances suspected of being
      criminal in nature to obtain evidence and identify the
      perpetrators;

(c)   establishing contacts and sources of information not
      readily available or apparent concerning establishments or
      the circumstances and behaviour of persons, usually with
      the aim of preventing a crime:

(d)   investigating possible cases of theft of goods, money or
      information from business establishments and of other
      possible cases of unlawful behaviour by customers or
      employees;

(e)   investigating establishments or other circumstances and
      behaviour of persons on behalf of legal authorities or
      clients;

(f)   making arrests or assisting in making arrests, if
      authorised;

(g)   testifying in court of law or reporting to superiors or
      clients about circumstances and results of investigations;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Agent, inquiry/police
  Detective
  Inspector, police

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Inspector-general, police - 1120
  Commissioner, police - 1120
  Police officer - 5162

7344  PHOTOGRAPHIC AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Photographic and related workers develop and process
photographic film  and make prints or slides.

     Tasks include -

(a)  processing black and white or colour film and plates to
     obtain negatives or transparent positives;

(b)  printing black and white or colour photographs;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Darkroom worker, film developing/colour photography
  Developer, film/colour
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, film developing 8224

3223  DIETICIANS AND NUTRITIONISTS 
     Dieticians and nutritionists conduct research and improve
or develop  concepts and operational methods concerning the
preparation and application of  diets for general and therapeutic
purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)   developing nutritional methods and diets and testing them;

(b)   planning and directing the preparation of therapeutic and
      other diets for individuals, groups in hospitals, or
      workers in particular sectors;

(c)   participating in programmes for nutrition education and
      nutrition rehabilitation activities;

(d)   advising on nutrition aspects of community food issues and
      health programmes;

(e)   keeping up with knowledge in related fields and maintaining
      contacts with appropriate professionals;

(f)   giving talks and lectures on diet and nutrition;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Consultant, dietetic/food processing
  Dietician
  Nutritionist

7136  PLUMBERS AND PIPE FITTERS
 

     Plumbers and pipe fitters assemble, fit, install and repair
plumbing  fixtures, or pipes and pipeline systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting, threading, bending, jointing, assembling,
     installing, maintaining and repairing pipes, fittings and
     fixtures of drainage, heating, water supply and sewerage
     systems;

(b)  assembling, installing, maintaining and repairing pipeline
     systems in ships, aircraft, buildings, industrial plant,
     etc.;

(c)  laying clay, concrete or cast-iron pipes in ditches to form
     sewers, drains or water mains, or for other purposes;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, pipe
  Layer, pipe
  Plumber
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, pipe installation 8290

1120  SENIOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS 

      Senior government officials advise governments on policy
matters, oversee the interpretation and implementation of
government policies and legislation  by government departments
and agencies, represent their country abroad and act  on its
behalf, or carry out similar tasks in intergovernmental
organisations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   advising national, state, regional or local governments on
      policy matters;

(b)   advising on the preparation of government budgets, laws and
      regulations, including amendments;

(c)   overseeing the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies and legislation by government
      departments and agencies;

(d)   representing their country abroad;
         
(e)   performing similar tasks in intergovernmental
      organisations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Administrator, government
Administrator, intergovernmental organisation
Ambassador
Consul-general
Secretary, government/non legislative

7321  ABRASIVE WHEEL FORMERS, POTTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Abrasive wheel formers, potters and related workers make
pottery,  porcelain ware, bricks, tiles and abrasive wheels.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making articles of pottery and porcelain;

(b)  making clay or plaster-of-Paris moulds;

(c)  forming articles on potter's wheel with hands, or using
     interior or exterior moulding shapes and shaping tools;

(d)  forming articles by casting semi-liquid clay in plaster-of-
     Paris moulds;

(e)  forming bricks and tiles into special shapes by hand;

(f)  making articles by pressing plastic clay into moulds by
     hand;

(g)  operating screw-press or hydraulic press to make products
     from clay dust;

(h)  operating a machine which extrudes moist clay for further
     processing;

(i)  forming abrasive wheels by moulding and pressing abrasive
     mixture;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Caster, pottery and porcelain
  Modeller, pottery and porcelain
  Potter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln operator, brick and tile - 8131
  Kiln operator, pottery and porcelain 8131

7324  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED DECORATIVE PAINTERS
 

     Glass, ceramics and related decorative painters decorate
articles made of  wood, metal, textiles, glass, ceramics and
other materials, and plan, lay out  and paint letters and designs
to make signs.

     Tasks include -

(a)  painting designs on articles with a brush, by spraying, or
     by transferring designs using stencils, transfers, rubber
     stamps and other means;

(b)  applying, for decorative purposes, paint, glaze, enamel,
     stain, varnish, lacquer and similar materials on articles
     by spraying or dipping;

(c)  coating mirror glass with silver solutions;

(d)  laying out and painting letters and designs to make signs;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, glass
  Painter, decorative
  Sign-writer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, painting/ceramics - 8131
  Machine-operator, painting/glass - 8131
  Painter, building - 7141
  Painter, manufactured articles - 7142
  Painter, vehicle - 7142

7412  BAKERS, PASTRY-COOKS AND CONFECTIONERY MAKERS
 

     Bakers, pastry-cooks and confectionery makers make various
kinds of  bread, cakes, and other flour products, as well as
handmade chocolate and  sugar confectionery.

     Tasks include  -

(a)  making bread, cakes, biscuits, pastries, pies and other
     flour products;

(b)  making handmade confectionery from mixtures of sugar,
     chocolate and other ingredients with the help of tools and
     some machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Baker
  Confectioner
  Maker, chocolate
 Pastry-cook
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cook - 5122
  Machine-operator, bakery products 8274
  Machine-operator, bread production 8274
  Machine-operator, chocolate production - 8274

7416  TOBACCO PREPARERS AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Tobacco preparers and tobacco products makers prepare
tobacco leaves and  make various tobacco products.

     Tasks  include -

(a)  grading cured tobacco leaves by type, quality and locality
     where grown;

(b)  mixing tobacco leaves according to formula to obtain a blend
     of distinct flavour;

(c)  tending vacuum container which moistens tobacco for further
     processing;

(d)  removing midribs and stalks from tobacco leaves and
     shredding tobacco;

(e)  making cigars, cigarettes, snuff and other tobacco products
     by hand or with simple machines;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, tobacco
  Maker, cigar
  Maker, cigarette
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, cigar production - 8279
  Machine-operator, cigarette production - 8279

7421  WOOD TREATERS
 

     Wood treaters season and preserve wood.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating steam-heated kilns to season wood;

(b)  treating wood with chemicals to protect it against decay or
     parasites;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Wood seasoner
  Wood treater
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, treating/wood 8141

2455  FILM, STAGE AND RELATED ACTORS AND DIRECTORS      
     Film, stage and related actors and directors act in, or
direct, motion  pictures, television or radio productions and
stage,shows.

     Tasks include -

(a)   learning lines and cues and playing parts in dramatic
      productions on stage, television, radio or in motion
      pictures;

(b)   telling stories or reading literary works aloud to educate
      or entertain listeners;

(c)   studying scripts to determine artistic interpretation,
      instructing actors on acting methods, and directing all
      aspects of dramatic productions on stage, television, radio
      or in motion pictures, including choice of actors, and
      final decisions concerning costumes, set designs, sound or
      lighting effects;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Actor
  Director, motion picture
  Director, stage
  Story-teller, radio or television

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Clown - 3474
  Impresario - 1229
  Producer, theatre - 1229
  Stage manager, 1229

1229  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED 
      This unit group covers department managers not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 122, Production and operations
department managers.

      For instance here should be classified those who plan,
direct and  coordinate activities of the enterprise or
organisation concerning government  administrative and other
operations, public or private education services,  health and
social work services, recreational, cultural, and sporting events

and services, and operations of extra-territorial organisations
and bodies.

      In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating government operations
      concerning public service activities, such as control of
      the money supply or taxation schemes, various government
      business regulations, as well as civil service
      administration and related activities;

(b)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of foreign affairs and
      public order and safety activities;

(c)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of government-funded
      social security schemes;

(d)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      public or private education;

(e)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      health and social services;

(f)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      recreational, cultural and sporting operations and events;

(g)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the operations of extra-territorial organisations and
      bodies;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

Dean

Department manager, production and operations/extra-
         territorial organisations

Department manager, production and operations/health

Department manager, production and operations/recreation

Head teacher


Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, education - 1319

General manager, recreation - 1319

Managing director, enterprise/health 1210

Managing director, organisation/extraterritorial
         organisations - 1210


2455  FILM, STAGE AND RELATED ACTORS AND DIRECTORS      
     Film, stage and related actors and directors act in, or
direct, motion  pictures, television or radio productions and
stage,shows.

     Tasks include -

(a)   learning lines and cues and playing parts in dramatic
      productions on stage, television, radio or in motion
      pictures;

(b)   telling stories or reading literary works aloud to educate
      or entertain listeners;

(c)   studying scripts to determine artistic interpretation,
      instructing actors on acting methods, and directing all
      aspects of dramatic productions on stage, television, radio
      or in motion pictures, including choice of actors, and
      final decisions concerning costumes, set designs, sound or
      lighting effects;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Actor
  Director, motion picture
  Director, stage
  Story-teller, radio or television

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Clown - 3474
  Impresario - 1229
  Producer, theatre - 1229
  Stage manager, 1229

1210  DIRECTORS AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES 
      Directors and chief executives head enterprises or
organisations (except  special interest organisations) and, with
the help of at least two other managers, determine and formulate
policies and plan, direct and  coordinate the general functioning
of the enterprise or organisation usually  within the guidelines
set up by a board of directors or a governing body, to  whom they
are answerable for the operations undertaken and results
obtained.

      Tasks include -

(a)   determining and formulating policies of the enterprise or
      organisation;

(b)   planning, directing and coordinating the general
      functioning of the enterprise or organisation;

(c)   determining and directing a particular policy, through
      consultation with subordinate managers;

(d)   reviewing the operations and results of the enterprise, or
      organisation, and reporting to governing bodies;

(e)   representing the enterprise or organisation in its dealings
      with outside bodies, including government or other
      authorities;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Chief executive, enterprise

Director-general, enterprise

Director-general, organisation

Managing director, enterprise

Managing director, organisation

President, organisation

2455  FILM, STAGE AND RELATED ACTORS AND DIRECTORS      
     Film, stage and related actors and directors act in, or
direct, motion  pictures, television or radio productions and
stage,shows.

     Tasks include -

(a)   learning lines and cues and playing parts in dramatic
      productions on stage, television, radio or in motion
      pictures;

(b)   telling stories or reading literary works aloud to educate
      or entertain listeners;

(c)   studying scripts to determine artistic interpretation,
      instructing actors on acting methods, and directing all
      aspects of dramatic productions on stage, television, radio
      or in motion pictures, including choice of actors, and
      final decisions concerning costumes, set designs, sound or
      lighting effects;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Actor
  Director, motion picture
  Director, stage
  Story-teller, radio or television

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Clown - 3474
  Impresario - 1229
  Producer, theatre - 1229
  Stage manager, 1229

1142  SENIOR OFFICIALS OF EMPLOYERS', WORKERS' AND OTHER
ECONOMIC-INTEREST  ORGANISATIONS 
      Senior officials of employers', workers' and other
economic-interest  organisations determine and formulate
policies, rules and regulations of their  respective
organisations, direct their application, represent these 
organisations and act on their behalf.

      Tasks include -

(a)   deciding and formulating the organisation's policies, rules
      and regulations;

(b)   negotiating on behalf of the organisation and its members;

(c)   promoting the interests of the organisation and its members
      before the legislature, government or general public;

(d)   planning and organising campaigns to recruit and educate
      members;

(e)   planning, organising and directing sections charged with
      implementing the organisation's policies, rules and
      regulations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Secretary-general, employers' organisation
Secretary-general, trade union
Senior official, employers' organisation
Senior official, trade union

1210  DIRECTORS AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES 
      Directors and chief executives head enterprises or
organisations (except  special interest organisations) and, with
the help of at least two other managers, determine and formulate
policies and plan, direct and  coordinate the general functioning
of the enterprise or organisation usually  within the guidelines
set up by a board of directors or a governing body, to  whom they
are answerable for the operations undertaken and results
obtained.

      Tasks include -

(a)   determining and formulating policies of the enterprise or
      organisation;

(b)   planning, directing and coordinating the general
      functioning of the enterprise or organisation;

(c)   determining and directing a particular policy, through
      consultation with subordinate managers;

(d)   reviewing the operations and results of the enterprise, or
      organisation, and reporting to governing bodies;

(e)   representing the enterprise or organisation in its dealings
      with outside bodies, including government or other
      authorities;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Chief executive, enterprise

Director-general, enterprise

Director-general, organisation

Managing director, enterprise

Managing director, organisation

President, organisation

1120  SENIOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS 

      Senior government officials advise governments on policy
matters, oversee the interpretation and implementation of
government policies and legislation  by government departments
and agencies, represent their country abroad and act  on its
behalf, or carry out similar tasks in intergovernmental
organisations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   advising national, state, regional or local governments on
      policy matters;

(b)   advising on the preparation of government budgets, laws and
      regulations, including amendments;

(c)   overseeing the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies and legislation by government
      departments and agencies;

(d)   representing their country abroad;
         
(e)   performing similar tasks in intergovernmental
      organisations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Administrator, government
Administrator, intergovernmental organisation
Ambassador
Consul-general
Secretary, government/non legislative

1210  DIRECTORS AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES 
      Directors and chief executives head enterprises or
organisations (except  special interest organisations) and, with
the help of at least two other managers, determine and formulate
policies and plan, direct and  coordinate the general functioning
of the enterprise or organisation usually  within the guidelines
set up by a board of directors or a governing body, to  whom they
are answerable for the operations undertaken and results
obtained.

      Tasks include -

(a)   determining and formulating policies of the enterprise or
      organisation;

(b)   planning, directing and coordinating the general
      functioning of the enterprise or organisation;

(c)   determining and directing a particular policy, through
      consultation with subordinate managers;

(d)   reviewing the operations and results of the enterprise, or
      organisation, and reporting to governing bodies;

(e)   representing the enterprise or organisation in its dealings
      with outside bodies, including government or other
      authorities;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Chief executive, enterprise

Director-general, enterprise

Director-general, organisation

Managing director, enterprise

Managing director, organisation

President, organisation

3472  RADIO, TELEVISION AND OTHER ANNOUNCERS

 
     Radio, television and other announcers read news bulletins,
conduct  interviews, and make other announcements or
introductions on radio, television  or in theatres and other
establishments.     Tasks include -

(a)   reading news bulletins and making other announcements on
      radio or television;

(b)   introducing performing artists or persons being
      interviewed, and making related announcements on radio,
      television, or in theatres, night-clubs and other
      establishments;

(c)   interviewing persons in public, especially on radio and
      television;

(d)   performing related tasks-

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Announcer, radio
  Announcer, television
  Compere
  Interviewer, media
  Newscaster

8321  MOTOR-CYCLE DRIVERS
 

     Motor-cycle drivers drive and tend motor cycles or motorised
tricycles  equipped to transport materials, goods or passengers.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending motor cycle or motorised tricycle to
     transport materials, goods and passengers;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Dispatch rider
  Motor-cyclist
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Driver, pedal vehicle - 9331

4133  TRANSPORT CLERKS
 
     Transport clerks keep records of operational aspects and
coordinate the  timing of train, road and air passenger and
freight transport, and prepare  reports for management.
     Tasks include -

(a)  keeping records of operational aspects, and coordinating the
     timing of passenger and freight transport;

(b)  directing train routings within a division or zone of a
     railway system and keeping related records;
(c)  directing, controlling and keeping records of freight
     handling at a railway yard;
(d)  coordinating and keeping records of operational activities
     concerning road transport, such as allocation and scheduling
     of vehicles and drivers, loading and unloading of vehicles
     and storage of goods in transit;
(e)  coordinating and keeping records of operational activities
     concerning air transport of passengers and freight, such as
     passenger lists and freight manifests;
(f)  preparing reports for management;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Controller, clerical/air transport service
  Controller, clerical/railway service
  Controller, clerical/road transport service
  Dispatcher, clerical/boat
  Dispatcher, clerical/bus
  Dispatcher, clerical/train
  Dispatcher, clerical/truck

8161  POWER-PRODUCTION PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Power-production plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which produce electric or other power
and control its distribution.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring coal-, oil- or natural-gas-fired 
     steam-power-generating plant;

(b)  operating and monitoring nuclear-fuelled steam-power-
     generating plant;

(c)  operating and monitoring hydroelectric-power-generating
     stations;

(d)  operating and monitoring other power generating plant, such
     as solar, tidal, geo-thermal or wind energy;

(e)  controlling power output and distribution of electricity
     from power stations;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, electric power plant
  Operator, hydroelectric power plant
  Operator, nuclear power plant
  Operator, solar power plant

6152  INLAND AND COASTAL WATERS FISHERY WORKERS
 
     Inland and coastal waters fishery workers, alone or as
members of  fishing-vessel crews, catch fish or gather other
forms of aquatic life in  inland or coastal waters, for sale or
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers, marketing
organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing and repairing nets and other fishing gear and
     equipment;

(b)  operating fishing vessels to, from and at fishing grounds;

(c)  baiting, setting and hauling in fishing gear;

(d)  gathering different forms of aquatic life from shores and
     shallow waters;

(e)  cleaning, freezing, icing or salting catch

(f)  delivering or marketing products;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Diver, oyster
  Diver, sponge
  Fisherman, coastal waters
  Fisherwoman, inland waters
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/fishing
        - 1221
  General manager, fishing - 1311
  Labourer, fishery - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/fishing - 1210

7216  UNDERWATER WORKERS
 

     Underwater workers work under water, dressed in scuba gear
or diving  suit, to inspect, install, repair, and remove
equipment and structures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  working under water to lay and repair bridges, piers and
     harbour-wall foundations;

(b)  inspecting for suspected damage and making minor repairs to
     ships' hulls and underwater installations;

(c)  reporting on condition of wrecked ships;

(d)  removing underwater obstructions;

(e)  drilling holes for underwater blasting;

(f)  performing various underwater tasks connected with salvage
     work or recovering dead bodies;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Frogman, salvage
  Underwater worker

6152  INLAND AND COASTAL WATERS FISHERY WORKERS
 
     Inland and coastal waters fishery workers, alone or as
members of  fishing-vessel crews, catch fish or gather other
forms of aquatic life in  inland or coastal waters, for sale or
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers, marketing
organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing and repairing nets and other fishing gear and
     equipment;

(b)  operating fishing vessels to, from and at fishing grounds;

(c)  baiting, setting and hauling in fishing gear;

(d)  gathering different forms of aquatic life from shores and
     shallow waters;

(e)  cleaning, freezing, icing or salting catch

(f)  delivering or marketing products;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Diver, oyster
  Diver, sponge
  Fisherman, coastal waters
  Fisherwoman, inland waters
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/fishing
        - 1221
  General manager, fishing - 1311
  Labourer, fishery - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/fishing - 1210

9333  FREIGHT HANDLERS
 

     Freight handlers carry out tasks such as packing, carrying,
loading and  unloading furniture and other household items, or
loading and unloading ship  and aircraft cargoes and other
freight, or carrying and stacking goods in  various warehouses.

     Tasks include -

(a)  packing office or household furniture, machines, appliances
     and related goods to be transported from one place to
     another;

(b)  carrying goods to be loaded on or unloaded from vans,
     trucks, wagons, ships, or aircraft;

(c)  loading and unloading grain, coal, sand and similar goods
     by placing them on conveyor-belts, pipes, etc. ;

(d)  connecting hoses between main shore installation pipes and
     tanks of barges, tankers and other ships to load and unload
     petroleum, liquefied gases and other liquids;

(e)  carrying and stacking goods in warehouses and similar
     establishments;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Handler, freight
Some related occupations classified else where:
  Operator, crane - 8333
  Operator, truck/lifting - 8334

3115  MECHANICAL ENGINEERING TECHNICIANS 
     Mechanical engineering technicians perform technical tasks
connected with  mechanical engineering research, as well as with
the design, manufacture,  assembly, construction, operation,
maintenance and repair of machines and  mechanical installations
and facilities.

     Tasks include -

(a)   providing technical assistance connected with research and
      the development of machines and mechanical installations,
      facilities and components, or testing prototypes;

(b)   designing and preparing layouts of machines and mechanical
      installations, facilities and components according to the
      specifications given;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for manufacture and
      installation according to the specifications given;

(d)   providing technical supervision of manufacture,
      utilisation, maintenance and repair of machines and
      mechanical installations, facilities and components to
      ensure satisfactory performance and compliance with
      specifications and regulations;

(e)   applying technical knowledge of machinery and mechanical
      engineering principles and practices in order to identify
      and solve problems arising in the course of their work;

(f)   developing and monitoring the implementation of safety
      standards and procedures for marine survey work in relation
      to ships' hulls, equipment and cargoes;


(g)   coordinating and supervising activities of workers engaged
      in dry-docking vessels for cleaning, painting and repair;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Technician,engineering/aeronautics
  Technician, engineering/marine
  Technician, engineering/mechanical
  Technician,engineering/nuclear power

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Assembler, mechanical machinery 8281
  Mechanic, industrial machinery - 7233

2221  MEDICAL DOCTORS 
     Medical doctors conduct research, improve or develop
concepts, theories  and operational methods, and apply preventive
or curative measures.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research into human disorders and illnesses and
      preventive or curative methods;

(b)   conducting medical examinations and making diagnoses;

(c)   prescribing and giving treatment for diagnosed illnesses,
      disorders or injuries;

(d)   giving specialised medical or surgical treatment for
      particular types of illnesses, disorders or injuries;

(e)   giving advice on and applying preventive medicine methods
      and treatments;

(f)   participating in the development and implementation of
      public health laws and regulations for safeguarding and
      promoting the health of a community;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Doctor, medical
  Ophthalmologist
  Physician
  Psychiatrist
  Surgeon

2432  LIBRARIANS AND RELATED INFORMATION PROFESSIONALS
 
     Librarians and related information professionals collect and
store  recorded or published material, and retrieve and provide
information as  requested.

     Tasks include

(a)   organising, developing and maintaining a systematic
      collection of books, periodicals and other printed or
      audio-visually recorded material;

(b)   selecting and recommending acquisitions of books and other
      printed or audio-visually recorded material;
 
(c)   organising, classifying and cataloguing library material;

(d)   organising and administering loan systems and information
      networks;

(e)   retrieving material and providing information to business
      and other users based on the collection itself or on
      library and information-network systems;

(f)   conducting research and analysing or modifying library and
      information services in accordance with changes in users'
      needs;

(g)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Information scientist, business services
  Information scientist, technical information
  Librarian

9322  HAND PACKERS AND OTHER MANUFACTURING LABOURERS
 

     Hand packers and other manufacturing labourers pack
materials or products  by hand and perform a variety of simple
routine tasks connected with  manufacturing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  packing materials or products by hand in boxes, bags,
     cartons, crates, kegs and other containers for shipment or
     storage;

(b)  moving, lifting, carrying, loading, unloading or washing raw
     materials or products, in various manufacturing  industries
     or repair and maintenance establishments;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, manufacturing
  Packer, hand
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, labelling - 8290
  Machine-operator, packing - 8290

9152  DOORKEEPERS, WATCHPERSONS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Doorkeepers, watchpersons and related workers undertake
doorkeeping  duties in apartment houses and other buildings,
attend parking places, watch  houses and other properties to
prevent illegal entry or theft and detect fire  or other hazards,
collect tickets, or perform ushering duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  doorkeeping in hotels and helping guests, especially on
     their arrival and departure, with luggage, keys, or
     information about directions, etc. ;

(b)  doorkeeping in apartment houses and other buildings,
     checking the right-of-entry of callers and giving them
     requested information;

(c)  watching houses and other properties to prevent illegal
     entry or theft, fire or other hazards;

(d)  ushering people into courtrooms, sporting places and similar
     
     establishments;

(e)  collecting tickets in cinemas, theatres, circuses and
     related places;

(f)  taking charge of cloakrooms or lavatories in public places;

(g)  attending parking places;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Attendant, cloakroom
  Collector, ticket
  Concierge, hotel desk
  Doorkeeper
  Guard, museum
  Porter, hotel
  Watchman
  Watchwoman
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Bodyguard - 5169
  Concierge, building - 9141
  Game-warden - 5169
  Patrolman, security - 5169
  Patrolwoman security - 5169
  Porter, luggage - 9151

2429  LEGAL PROFESSIONALS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers legal professionals not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 242, Legal professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who perform
legal functions  other than pleading or prosecuting cases or
presiding over judicial  proceedings.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   giving advice on legal aspects of various personal,
      business and administrative problems;

(b)   drawing up legal documents and contracts;

(c)   arranging property transfers;

(d)   determining, by inquest, the causes of any death not
      obviously due to natural causes;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Coroner
  Jurist, except lawyer or judge
  Notary

2451  AUTHORS, JOURNALISTS AND OTHER WRITERS 
     Authors, journalists and other writers write literary works
for  publication or presentation in dramatic form, appraise
merits of artistic  productions, or literary and other works of
art, or write and edit news,  stories and commentaries.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing literary works for publication or
      presentation in dramatic form;

(b)   writing scripts and continuities and preparing programmes
      for stage, film, radio and television productions;

(c)   appraising and writing about merits of literary, musical
      and other works of art, and about artistic performances;

(d)   collecting, reporting and commenting on news and current
      affairs for publication in newspapers and periodicals, or
      for broadcasting by radio or television;

(e)   interviewing politicians and other public figures at press
      conferences and on other occasions, including individual
      interviews recorded for radio or television;

(f)   writing editorials and selecting, revising, arranging and
      editing submitted articles and other material for
      publication in newspapers and periodicals;

(g)   appraising manuscripts submitted for publication in book
      form, making recommendations thereon and editing or
      supervising editing of the material;

(h)   writing advertising copy promoting particular products or
      services;

(i)   selecting, assembling and preparing publicity material
      about business or other organisations for issue through
      press, radio, television and other media;

(j)   designing and writing brochures, handbooks and similar
      technical publications;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Author
  Copywriter, advertising
  Critic
  Editor
  Journalist
  Writer, technical

3118  DRAUGHTSPERSONS 
     Draughts persons prepare technical drawings, maps and
illustrations from  sketches, measurements and other data, and
copy drawings and paintings onto  printing plates.

     Tasks include -

(a)   preparing and revising working drawings from sketches and
      specifications prepared by engineers and designers for the
      manufacture, installation and erection of machinery and
      equipment or for the construction, modification,
      maintenance and repair of buildings, dams, bridges, roads
      and other architectural and civil engineering projects;

(b)   operating computer-assisted drawing equipment to create,
      modify and generate hard-copy and digital representations
      of working drawings;


(c)   operating digitising table or similar equipment to transfer
      hard-copy representation of working drawings, maps and
      other curves to digital form;

(d)   using stereo instruments to capture topographical data in
      analogue or digital form, and using these and other data
to
      prepare and revise topographical, hydrographic, utility and
      other thematic maps;

(e)   preparing and revising illustrations for reference works,
      brochures and technical manuals dealing with the assembly,
      installation, operation, maintenance and repair of
      machinery and other equipment and goods;

(f)   copying drawings and  paintings  onto stone or metal plates
      for printing;

(g)   performing related tasks;s

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Draughtsperson
  Draughtsperson, architectural
  Draughtsperson, cartographical
  Draughtsperson, engineering/civil
  Illustrator, technical

7431  FIBRE PREPARERS
 

     Fibre preparers prepare wool, cotton,flax, jute, hemp and
other natural  textile fibres for spinning and winding.

     Tasks include -

(a)  grading and classifying natural textile fibres;

(b)  washing wool fibres;

(c)  cleaning and fluffing textile fibres;

(d)  forming fibres into sliver, combing them, combining sliver
     into sliver laps or forming sliver into rove;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Comber, fibre/textiles
  Drawer, fibre/textiles
  Rover, fibre/textiles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator combing/textile fibres - 8261

7111  MINERS AND QUARRY WORKERS
 

     Miners and quarry workers extract solid minerals from
underground or  surface mines or quarries.

     Tasks include -

(a)  extracting coal, ores and other solid minerals from
     underground or surface mines;

(b)  extracting granite, limestone, slate, flint or other kinds
     of rocks from quarries;

(c)  setting and operating machines which cut channels or drill
     blasting holes into the open face of mines or quarries;

(d)  cutting, fitting and installing wood or steel props, pillars
     and arches to support walls and roof of underground
     workings;

(e)  collecting samples of coal or ore for laboratory analysis;

(f)  extracting chalk, clay, gravel or sand from open pits;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Miner
  Quarrier
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, drilling/mine - 8111
  Machine-operator, mining/continuous - 8111

7221  BLACKSMITHS, HAMMER-SMITHS AND FORGING-PRESS WORKERS
 

     Blacksmiths, hammer-smiths and forging-press workers draw
wire, hammer  and forge bars, rods, ingots and plates of iron,
steel or other metals to make  and repair various kinds of tools,
metal articles, pieces of equipment,  agricultural and related
implements.

     Tasks include -

(a)  heating metal in forge furnace and manufacturing and
     repairing articles by drawing, bending, cutting, hammering
     metal on an anvil, punching, shearing, joining and hardening
     or tempering;

(b)  shaping heated metal into forgings on power hammer equipped
     with open dies;

(c)  operating closed-die drop hammer to forge metal articles;

(d)  operating a power-press machine equipped with closed dies
to
     forge metal articles;

(e)  drawing wire;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blacksmith
  Drop-hammer worker
  Forging-press worker
  Hammer-smith
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, casting/metal - 8122
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

7432  WEAVERS, KNITTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

  
     Weavers, knitters and related workers spin and wind yarn by
hand, weave  materials on hand looms, make carpets by using a
knotting technique, knit  garment fabrics by hand or hand-
operated machine or perform similar  manufacturing tasks by hand
or hand-operated machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  spinning and winding yarn by hand;

(b)  drawing warp threads into loom by hand;

(c)  weaving plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpet or
     other fabrics on hand looms;

(d)  making carpets by using a knotting technique;

(e)  knitting garments and other articles on hand-operated
     machine or by hand;

(f)  crocheting or making braid by hand;

(g)  making nets by hand;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Knitter
  Spinner, thread and yarn
  Threader, loom
  Weaver, carpet
  Weaver cloth
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, knitting - 8262
  Machine-operator, weaving - 8262

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

7441  PELT DRESSERS, TANNERS AND FELLMONGERS
 

     Pelt dressers, tanners and fellmongers prepare fur- and
wool-bearing  pelts for making garments and other products, and
make leather from hides and  skins.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sorting and grading pelts, hides and skins;

(b)  removing flesh and fat from pelts before curing;

(c)  removing flesh and hair from hides;

(d)  removing long, coarse hair from pelts and trimming
     underlying hair to even length;

(e)  operating machine to split hides edgeways;

(f)  treating hides to convert them into leather;

(g)  applying dyes to fur pelts;

(h)  dressing and applying dyes and stains to leather;

(i)  stretching and smoothing dressed pelts;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fellmonger
  Grader, pelt
  Tanner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, tanning - 8265

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

7113  STONE SPLITTERS, CUTTERS AND CARVERS
 



     Stone splitters, cutters and carvers break quarried stone
slabs or  blocks, or by using hand or hand-powered tools cut,
shape and finish stone for  building, ornamental, monumental and
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving wedges into quarried stone to break it into slabs
     or blocks;

(b)  selecting and grading slabs and blocks of granite, marble,
     and other stone;

(c)  cutting, shaping and finishing building and monumental stone
     such as granite or marble by using hand or hand-powered
     tools;

(d)  making patterns and marking shapes on stone for subsequent
     sawing, planing, drilling and other dressing and cutting
     operations;

(e)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     blocks used for monuments or memorials;

(f)  setting stone in the erection of monuments and memorials;

(g)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     used for decorative facings on buildings-

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carver, stone
  Cutter, stone
  Mason, monument
  Splitter, stone
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, carving/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, cutting/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, splitting/stone 8112
  Sculptor - 2452
  Stonemason, construction - 7122

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

5141  HAIRDRESSERS, BARBERS, BEAUTICIANS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Hairdressers, barbers, beauticians and related workers cut
and dress  hair, shave and trim beards, give beauty treatment,
apply cosmetics and  make-up and give other kinds of treatment
to individuals in order to improve their appearance.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting, washing, tinting and waving hair;

(b)  cutting and washing hair and shaving or trimming beards;

(c)  giving scalp treatment;

(d)  fitting wigs according to customers' requirements;

(e)  cleaning and applying creams, lotions and related products
     to face and parts of body;

(f)  giving facial and body massage;

(g)  applying make-up to clients of a beauty parlour;

(h)  applying make-up to actors and other performers;

(i)  cleaning, shaping and polishing finger and toe-nails and
     treating minor ailments of the human foot such as corns,
     calluses or deformed toe-nails;

(j)  attending to clients taking baths and administering
     elementary massage;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Attendant, bath
  Barber
  Beautician
  Chiropodist
  Hairdresser
  Manicurist

7433  TAILORS, DRESSMAKERS AND HATTERS
 

     Tailors, dressmakers and hatters make suits, dresses and
other garments  from textile fabrics, leather or any other
material except fur, carry out  alterations and repairs, or make
hats, or participate in the manufacture of  ready-to-wear
garments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making overcoats, suits, skirts, shirts, blouses, lingerie,
     corsetry and similar garments often to clients' individual
     requirements;

(b)  participating in the manufacture of ready-to-wear clothing;

(c)  making hats;

(d)  altering, restyling and repairing garments;

(e)  making and caring for costumes used in theatrical,
     television and motion picture productions;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Dressmaker
  Milliner
  Tailor
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, sewing - 8263

7416  TOBACCO PREPARERS AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Tobacco preparers and tobacco products makers prepare
tobacco leaves and  make various tobacco products.

     Tasks  include -

(a)  grading cured tobacco leaves by type, quality and locality
     where grown;

(b)  mixing tobacco leaves according to formula to obtain a blend
     of distinct flavour;

(c)  tending vacuum container which moistens tobacco for further
     processing;

(d)  removing midribs and stalks from tobacco leaves and
     shredding tobacco;

(e)  making cigars, cigarettes, snuff and other tobacco products
     by hand or with simple machines;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, tobacco
  Maker, cigar
  Maker, cigarette
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, cigar production - 8279
  Machine-operator, cigarette production - 8279

7322  GLASS-MAKERS, CUTTERS, GRINDERS AND FINISHERS
 

     Glass-makers, cutters, grinders and finishers blow, mould,
press and roll  shapes from molten glass and cut, grind and
polish glass.

     Tasks include -

(a)  shaping molten glass by means of blowpipe, hand moulding,
     heating and bending;

(b)  heating, moulding and pressing optical glass to make lens
     blanks;

(c)  grinding and polishing lens blanks;

(d)  grinding and bevelling edges of glass;

(e)  cutting sheet glass with hand tools and sawing prisms and
     other shapes from optical glass blocks;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blower, glass
  Cutter, glass
  Finisher, glass
  Grinder, glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Furnace-operator, glass production - 8131

7223    MACHINE-TOOL SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool setters and setter-operators set for operators,
or set and  operate, various machine tools working to fine
tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting one or more types of machine tools for operators to
     produce metal articles in standardised series;

(b)  setting and operating a variety of machine tools;

(c)  setting and operating particular types of metalworking
     machines, such as lathe, milling, planing, boring, drilling,
     grinding or honing machines, including multipurpose
     numerically controlled metalworking machines;

(d)  performing similar tasks when machining plastics and other
     metal substitutes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Setter, machine tool
  Setter-operator, drilling machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, grinding machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, lathe/metalworking
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, drilling/metal - 8211
  Machine-operator, grinding/metal 8211
  Machine-operator, machine tool - 8211

7321  ABRASIVE WHEEL FORMERS, POTTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Abrasive wheel formers, potters and related workers make
pottery,  porcelain ware, bricks, tiles and abrasive wheels.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making articles of pottery and porcelain;

(b)  making clay or plaster-of-Paris moulds;

(c)  forming articles on potter's wheel with hands, or using
     interior or exterior moulding shapes and shaping tools;

(d)  forming articles by casting semi-liquid clay in plaster-of-
     Paris moulds;

(e)  forming bricks and tiles into special shapes by hand;

(f)  making articles by pressing plastic clay into moulds by
     hand;

(g)  operating screw-press or hydraulic press to make products
     from clay dust;

(h)  operating a machine which extrudes moist clay for further
     processing;

(i)  forming abrasive wheels by moulding and pressing abrasive
     mixture;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Caster, pottery and porcelain
  Modeller, pottery and porcelain
  Potter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln operator, brick and tile - 8131
  Kiln operator, pottery and porcelain 8131

7313  JEWELLERY AND PRECIOUS-METAL WORKERS
 

     Jewellery and precious-metal workers make and repair
jewellery and  precious metalware, cut and set gems and engrave
designs on jewellery and  precious metal articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  casting jewellery and other non-ferrous metal articles by
     hand;

(b)  making complete jewellery articles such as rings, brooches
     and bracelets;

(c)  cutting and polishing gems and setting them in jewellery
     articles;

(d)  making and repairing precious metalware;

(e)  rolling and beating precious metals; engraving letters and
     designs on jewellery and precious metalware;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, jewellery
  Goldsmith
  Jeweller
  Setter, gem
  Silversmith

7113  STONE SPLITTERS, CUTTERS AND CARVERS
 



     Stone splitters, cutters and carvers break quarried stone
slabs or  blocks, or by using hand or hand-powered tools cut,
shape and finish stone for  building, ornamental, monumental and
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving wedges into quarried stone to break it into slabs
     or blocks;

(b)  selecting and grading slabs and blocks of granite, marble,
     and other stone;

(c)  cutting, shaping and finishing building and monumental stone
     such as granite or marble by using hand or hand-powered
     tools;

(d)  making patterns and marking shapes on stone for subsequent
     sawing, planing, drilling and other dressing and cutting
     operations;

(e)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     blocks used for monuments or memorials;

(f)  setting stone in the erection of monuments and memorials;

(g)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     used for decorative facings on buildings-

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carver, stone
  Cutter, stone
  Mason, monument
  Splitter, stone
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, carving/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, cutting/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, splitting/stone 8112
  Sculptor - 2452
  Stonemason, construction - 7122

8322  CAR, TAXI AND VAN DRIVERS
 

     Car, taxi and van drivers drive and tend motor cars and vans
to transport  passengers, mail or goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending passenger cars or taxis ;

(b)  driving and tending cars, vans or small trucks to deliver
     mail or goods;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, car
  Driver, taxi
  Driver, van

9332  DRIVERS OF ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES AND MACHINERY

 

     Drivers of animal-drawn vehicles and machinery drive animal-
drawn  vehicles to transport passengers or goods, as well as
animal-drawn machinery  usually in connection with farming.

     Tasks include -

(a)  harnessing animals and hitching them to vehicles or
     machinery;

(b)  loading or unloading goods, or assisting passengers in
     getting on or off a vehicle;

(c)  driving animals in the desired direction with due regard to
     other traffic and traffic regulations;

(d)  collecting fares or charges;

(e)  driving animals to haul wagons in mines or quarries; 

(f)  driving animals hitched to farm or other machinery;

(g)  driving working elephants;

(h)  making minor repairs and keeping vehicles in good order;

(i)  performing related tasks;

(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, animal-drawn vehicle/road
  Driver, animal train
  Driver, elephant
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Driver, car - 8322
  Driver, locomotive - 8311

8332  EARTH-MOVING- AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Earth-moving- and related plant operators operate and
monitor machines to  excavate, grade, level and compact earth or
similar materials and lay surfaces  of asphalt and concrete.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring excavating machines, equipped with
     moveable shovel, grab-bucket or dragline bucket, to excavate
     and move earth, rock, sand, gravel or similar materials, or
     to tear down buildings or other structures;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines for digging trenches for
     sewers, drainage, water, oil, gas or similar pipelines;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines equipped with concave
     steel blade to move, distribute and level earth, sand, snow
     and other materials;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment to remove sand, gravel
     and mud from bottom of body of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines for hammering wooden,
     concrete or steel piles into ground;

(f)  operating and monitoring power roller to compact and smooth
     layers of materials in making roads, pavements and similar
     work;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which spread and smooth
     concrete or bituminous or tar preparations to construct
     roadways, roads or similar work;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, bulldozer
  Operator, excavator
  Operator, pile-driver
  Operator, road-roller

8323  BUS AND TRAM DRIVERS
 

     Bus and tram drivers drive and tend buses or street tramcars
to transport  passengers, mail or goods.

(a)  driving and tending motor bus, trolley  bus or motor coach
     to transport local or long-distance passengers, mail or
     goods

(b)  driving and tending street tramcar transporting passengers;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, bus
  Driver, tram

8322  CAR, TAXI AND VAN DRIVERS
 

     Car, taxi and van drivers drive and tend motor cars and vans
to transport  passengers, mail or goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending passenger cars or taxis ;

(b)  driving and tending cars, vans or small trucks to deliver
     mail or goods;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, car
  Driver, taxi
  Driver, van

8333  CRANE, HOIST AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Crane, hoist and related plant operators operate and monitor
cranes and  other hoisting equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mobile or stationary cranes with
     mobile or fixed jib or boom ;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment for hoisting, lowering
     or raising men and materials on construction site or in
     mine;

(c)  operating and monitoring ski-lifts and similar equipment;

(d)  operating and monitoring machinery used to haul ferry or
     barge with goods, passengers and vehicles across short
     stretches of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machinery to open and close bridge
     for the passage of road and water traffic;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, crane
  Operator, hoist

8322  CAR, TAXI AND VAN DRIVERS
 

     Car, taxi and van drivers drive and tend motor cars and vans
to transport  passengers, mail or goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending passenger cars or taxis ;

(b)  driving and tending cars, vans or small trucks to deliver
     mail or goods;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, car
  Driver, taxi
  Driver, van

8332  EARTH-MOVING- AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Earth-moving- and related plant operators operate and
monitor machines to  excavate, grade, level and compact earth or
similar materials and lay surfaces  of asphalt and concrete.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring excavating machines, equipped with
     moveable shovel, grab-bucket or dragline bucket, to excavate
     and move earth, rock, sand, gravel or similar materials, or
     to tear down buildings or other structures;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines for digging trenches for
     sewers, drainage, water, oil, gas or similar pipelines;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines equipped with concave
     steel blade to move, distribute and level earth, sand, snow
     and other materials;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment to remove sand, gravel
     and mud from bottom of body of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines for hammering wooden,
     concrete or steel piles into ground;

(f)  operating and monitoring power roller to compact and smooth
     layers of materials in making roads, pavements and similar
     work;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which spread and smooth
     concrete or bituminous or tar preparations to construct
     roadways, roads or similar work;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, bulldozer
  Operator, excavator
  Operator, pile-driver
  Operator, road-roller

8321  MOTOR-CYCLE DRIVERS
 

     Motor-cycle drivers drive and tend motor cycles or motorised
tricycles  equipped to transport materials, goods or passengers.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending motor cycle or motorised tricycle to
     transport materials, goods and passengers;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Dispatch rider
  Motor-cyclist
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Driver, pedal vehicle - 9331

8324  HEAVY-TRUCK AND LORRY DRIVERS
 

     Heavy-truck and lorry drivers drive and tend heavy motor
vehicles to  transport goods, liquids and heavy materials over
short or long distances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending a heavy motor vehicle, such as a lorry
     with or without trailer or a dump-truck, to transport goods,
     liquids or heavy materials over short or long distances;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, truck/heavy
  Operator, shuttle-car/mine

9332  DRIVERS OF ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES AND MACHINERY

 

     Drivers of animal-drawn vehicles and machinery drive animal-
drawn  vehicles to transport passengers or goods, as well as
animal-drawn machinery  usually in connection with farming.

     Tasks include -

(a)  harnessing animals and hitching them to vehicles or
     machinery;

(b)  loading or unloading goods, or assisting passengers in
     getting on or off a vehicle;

(c)  driving animals in the desired direction with due regard to
     other traffic and traffic regulations;

(d)  collecting fares or charges;

(e)  driving animals to haul wagons in mines or quarries; 

(f)  driving animals hitched to farm or other machinery;

(g)  driving working elephants;

(h)  making minor repairs and keeping vehicles in good order;

(i)  performing related tasks;

(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, animal-drawn vehicle/road
  Driver, animal train
  Driver, elephant
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Driver, car - 8322
  Driver, locomotive - 8311

8311  LOCOMOTIVE-ENGINE DRIVERS
 

     Locomotive-engine drivers drive, or assist in driving,
locomotive engines  to transport passengers and freight.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving or assisting in driving a steam, electric or diesel-
     electric locomotive engine ;

(b)  driving an underground or elevated passenger train;

(c)  driving a locomotive to haul carriages underground or on the
     surface of a mine or quarry;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, engine/mine
  Driver, locomotive
  Driver, train

8332  EARTH-MOVING- AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Earth-moving- and related plant operators operate and
monitor machines to  excavate, grade, level and compact earth or
similar materials and lay surfaces  of asphalt and concrete.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring excavating machines, equipped with
     moveable shovel, grab-bucket or dragline bucket, to excavate
     and move earth, rock, sand, gravel or similar materials, or
     to tear down buildings or other structures;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines for digging trenches for
     sewers, drainage, water, oil, gas or similar pipelines;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines equipped with concave
     steel blade to move, distribute and level earth, sand, snow
     and other materials;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment to remove sand, gravel
     and mud from bottom of body of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines for hammering wooden,
     concrete or steel piles into ground;

(f)  operating and monitoring power roller to compact and smooth
     layers of materials in making roads, pavements and similar
     work;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which spread and smooth
     concrete or bituminous or tar preparations to construct
     roadways, roads or similar work;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, bulldozer
  Operator, excavator
  Operator, pile-driver
  Operator, road-roller

9332  DRIVERS OF ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES AND MACHINERY

 

     Drivers of animal-drawn vehicles and machinery drive animal-
drawn  vehicles to transport passengers or goods, as well as
animal-drawn machinery  usually in connection with farming.

     Tasks include -

(a)  harnessing animals and hitching them to vehicles or
     machinery;

(b)  loading or unloading goods, or assisting passengers in
     getting on or off a vehicle;

(c)  driving animals in the desired direction with due regard to
     other traffic and traffic regulations;

(d)  collecting fares or charges;

(e)  driving animals to haul wagons in mines or quarries; 

(f)  driving animals hitched to farm or other machinery;

(g)  driving working elephants;

(h)  making minor repairs and keeping vehicles in good order;

(i)  performing related tasks;

(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, animal-drawn vehicle/road
  Driver, animal train
  Driver, elephant
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Driver, car - 8322
  Driver, locomotive - 8311

7221  BLACKSMITHS, HAMMER-SMITHS AND FORGING-PRESS WORKERS
 

     Blacksmiths, hammer-smiths and forging-press workers draw
wire, hammer  and forge bars, rods, ingots and plates of iron,
steel or other metals to make  and repair various kinds of tools,
metal articles, pieces of equipment,  agricultural and related
implements.

     Tasks include -

(a)  heating metal in forge furnace and manufacturing and
     repairing articles by drawing, bending, cutting, hammering
     metal on an anvil, punching, shearing, joining and hardening
     or tempering;

(b)  shaping heated metal into forgings on power hammer equipped
     with open dies;

(c)  operating closed-die drop hammer to forge metal articles;

(d)  operating a power-press machine equipped with closed dies
to
     forge metal articles;

(e)  drawing wire;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blacksmith
  Drop-hammer worker
  Forging-press worker
  Hammer-smith
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, casting/metal - 8122
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

9331  HAND OR PEDAL VEHICLE DRIVERS
 

     Hand or pedal vehicle drivers propel cycles and similar
vehicles to  transport passengers or goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  loading or unloading goods, or assisting passengers in
     getting on or off a vehicle;

(b)  moving vehicle in the desired direction with due regard to
     other traffic and traffic regulations;

(c)  making minor repairs and keeping vehicle in good order;

(d)  collecting fares or charges;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, pedal vehicle
  Driver, rickshaw
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Rider, motor cycle - 8321

8311  LOCOMOTIVE-ENGINE DRIVERS
 

     Locomotive-engine drivers drive, or assist in driving,
locomotive engines  to transport passengers and freight.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving or assisting in driving a steam, electric or diesel-
     electric locomotive engine ;

(b)  driving an underground or elevated passenger train;

(c)  driving a locomotive to haul carriages underground or on the
     surface of a mine or quarry;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, engine/mine
  Driver, locomotive
  Driver, train

8324  HEAVY-TRUCK AND LORRY DRIVERS
 

     Heavy-truck and lorry drivers drive and tend heavy motor
vehicles to  transport goods, liquids and heavy materials over
short or long distances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending a heavy motor vehicle, such as a lorry
     with or without trailer or a dump-truck, to transport goods,
     liquids or heavy materials over short or long distances;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, truck/heavy
  Operator, shuttle-car/mine

8331  MOTORISED FARM AND FORESTRY PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Motorised farm and forestry plant operators drive, tend,
operate and  monitor one or more types of motorised, mobile
machinery or equipment used in  farming or forestry operations.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending tractor or self-propelled ploughing,
     planting, harvesting, baling or other special-purpose farm
     machinery, or similar tractor-drawn equipment;

(b)  driving and tending tractor or self-propelled clearing,
     planting, harvesting, timber-carrying or other special-
     purpose forestry machinery;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, timber carrier
  Driver, tractor
  Operator, harvester
  Operator, motorised farm equipment

8322  CAR, TAXI AND VAN DRIVERS
 

     Car, taxi and van drivers drive and tend motor cars and vans
to transport  passengers, mail or goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending passenger cars or taxis ;

(b)  driving and tending cars, vans or small trucks to deliver
     mail or goods;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, car
  Driver, taxi
  Driver, van

8323  BUS AND TRAM DRIVERS
 

     Bus and tram drivers drive and tend buses or street tramcars
to transport  passengers, mail or goods.

(a)  driving and tending motor bus, trolley  bus or motor coach
     to transport local or long-distance passengers, mail or
     goods

(b)  driving and tending street tramcar transporting passengers;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, bus
  Driver, tram

8322  CAR, TAXI AND VAN DRIVERS
 

     Car, taxi and van drivers drive and tend motor cars and vans
to transport  passengers, mail or goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending passenger cars or taxis ;

(b)  driving and tending cars, vans or small trucks to deliver
     mail or goods;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, car
  Driver, taxi
  Driver, van

8321  MOTOR-CYCLE DRIVERS
 

     Motor-cycle drivers drive and tend motor cycles or motorised
tricycles  equipped to transport materials, goods or passengers.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending motor cycle or motorised tricycle to
     transport materials, goods and passengers;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Dispatch rider
  Motor-cyclist
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Driver, pedal vehicle - 9331

3475  ATHLETES, SPORTSPERSONS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Athletes, sportspersons and related associate professionals
participate  in competitive sporting events, conduct sports
training, compile rules  concerning sporting events, and control
the progress of these events.     Tasks include -

(a)   participating in competitive sporting events;

(b)   conducting sports training to develop ability in and
      knowledge of the sport;

(c)   compiling rules concerning the conduct of sporting
      competitions, and controlling the progress of these events;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Athlete
  Boxer
  Coach, sports
  Official, sports
  Wrestler

8321  MOTOR-CYCLE DRIVERS
 

     Motor-cycle drivers drive and tend motor cycles or motorised
tricycles  equipped to transport materials, goods or passengers.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending motor cycle or motorised tricycle to
     transport materials, goods and passengers;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Dispatch rider
  Motor-cyclist
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Driver, pedal vehicle - 9331

9331  HAND OR PEDAL VEHICLE DRIVERS
 

     Hand or pedal vehicle drivers propel cycles and similar
vehicles to  transport passengers or goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  loading or unloading goods, or assisting passengers in
     getting on or off a vehicle;

(b)  moving vehicle in the desired direction with due regard to
     other traffic and traffic regulations;

(c)  making minor repairs and keeping vehicle in good order;

(d)  collecting fares or charges;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, pedal vehicle
  Driver, rickshaw
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Rider, motor cycle - 8321

8322  CAR, TAXI AND VAN DRIVERS
 

     Car, taxi and van drivers drive and tend motor cars and vans
to transport  passengers, mail or goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending passenger cars or taxis ;

(b)  driving and tending cars, vans or small trucks to deliver
     mail or goods;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, car
  Driver, taxi
  Driver, van

6141  FORESTRY WORKERS AND LOGGERS
 
     Forestry workers and loggers carry out the necessary
operations to  cultivate, conserve and exploit forests, for sale
or delivery of forestry  products on a regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a) establishing and caring for forest stands;

(b)  locating trees to be felled and estimating volume of timber;

(c)  trimming, topping and felling trees and sawing them into
     logs;

(d)  shaping rough wooden products from logs at felling site;

(e)  stacking logs, loading them in chutes or floating them down
     rivers;

(f)  keeping watch to detect forest fires and participating in
     firefighting operations;

(g)  delivering or marketing forestry products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Climber, logging
  Cruiser, timber
  Feller-bucker, tree
  Forestry worker, skilled
  Logger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/forestry
        - 1221
  General manager, forestry - 1311
  Labourer, forestry - 9212
  Managing director, enterprise/forestry - 1210
  Operator, forestry machinery - 8331

8311  LOCOMOTIVE-ENGINE DRIVERS
 

     Locomotive-engine drivers drive, or assist in driving,
locomotive engines  to transport passengers and freight.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving or assisting in driving a steam, electric or diesel-
     electric locomotive engine ;

(b)  driving an underground or elevated passenger train;

(c)  driving a locomotive to haul carriages underground or on the
     surface of a mine or quarry;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, engine/mine
  Driver, locomotive
  Driver, train

9331  HAND OR PEDAL VEHICLE DRIVERS
 

     Hand or pedal vehicle drivers propel cycles and similar
vehicles to  transport passengers or goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  loading or unloading goods, or assisting passengers in
     getting on or off a vehicle;

(b)  moving vehicle in the desired direction with due regard to
     other traffic and traffic regulations;

(c)  making minor repairs and keeping vehicle in good order;

(d)  collecting fares or charges;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, pedal vehicle
  Driver, rickshaw
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Rider, motor cycle - 8321

8332  EARTH-MOVING- AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Earth-moving- and related plant operators operate and
monitor machines to  excavate, grade, level and compact earth or
similar materials and lay surfaces  of asphalt and concrete.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring excavating machines, equipped with
     moveable shovel, grab-bucket or dragline bucket, to excavate
     and move earth, rock, sand, gravel or similar materials, or
     to tear down buildings or other structures;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines for digging trenches for
     sewers, drainage, water, oil, gas or similar pipelines;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines equipped with concave
     steel blade to move, distribute and level earth, sand, snow
     and other materials;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment to remove sand, gravel
     and mud from bottom of body of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines for hammering wooden,
     concrete or steel piles into ground;

(f)  operating and monitoring power roller to compact and smooth
     layers of materials in making roads, pavements and similar
     work;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which spread and smooth
     concrete or bituminous or tar preparations to construct
     roadways, roads or similar work;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, bulldozer
  Operator, excavator
  Operator, pile-driver
  Operator, road-roller

8311  LOCOMOTIVE-ENGINE DRIVERS
 

     Locomotive-engine drivers drive, or assist in driving,
locomotive engines  to transport passengers and freight.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving or assisting in driving a steam, electric or diesel-
     electric locomotive engine ;

(b)  driving an underground or elevated passenger train;

(c)  driving a locomotive to haul carriages underground or on the
     surface of a mine or quarry;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, engine/mine
  Driver, locomotive
  Driver, train

8332  EARTH-MOVING- AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Earth-moving- and related plant operators operate and
monitor machines to  excavate, grade, level and compact earth or
similar materials and lay surfaces  of asphalt and concrete.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring excavating machines, equipped with
     moveable shovel, grab-bucket or dragline bucket, to excavate
     and move earth, rock, sand, gravel or similar materials, or
     to tear down buildings or other structures;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines for digging trenches for
     sewers, drainage, water, oil, gas or similar pipelines;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines equipped with concave
     steel blade to move, distribute and level earth, sand, snow
     and other materials;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment to remove sand, gravel
     and mud from bottom of body of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines for hammering wooden,
     concrete or steel piles into ground;

(f)  operating and monitoring power roller to compact and smooth
     layers of materials in making roads, pavements and similar
     work;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which spread and smooth
     concrete or bituminous or tar preparations to construct
     roadways, roads or similar work;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, bulldozer
  Operator, excavator
  Operator, pile-driver
  Operator, road-roller

8323  BUS AND TRAM DRIVERS
 

     Bus and tram drivers drive and tend buses or street tramcars
to transport  passengers, mail or goods.

(a)  driving and tending motor bus, trolley  bus or motor coach
     to transport local or long-distance passengers, mail or
     goods

(b)  driving and tending street tramcar transporting passengers;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, bus
  Driver, tram

8324  HEAVY-TRUCK AND LORRY DRIVERS
 

     Heavy-truck and lorry drivers drive and tend heavy motor
vehicles to  transport goods, liquids and heavy materials over
short or long distances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending a heavy motor vehicle, such as a lorry
     with or without trailer or a dump-truck, to transport goods,
     liquids or heavy materials over short or long distances;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, truck/heavy
  Operator, shuttle-car/mine

8332  EARTH-MOVING- AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Earth-moving- and related plant operators operate and
monitor machines to  excavate, grade, level and compact earth or
similar materials and lay surfaces  of asphalt and concrete.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring excavating machines, equipped with
     moveable shovel, grab-bucket or dragline bucket, to excavate
     and move earth, rock, sand, gravel or similar materials, or
     to tear down buildings or other structures;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines for digging trenches for
     sewers, drainage, water, oil, gas or similar pipelines;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines equipped with concave
     steel blade to move, distribute and level earth, sand, snow
     and other materials;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment to remove sand, gravel
     and mud from bottom of body of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines for hammering wooden,
     concrete or steel piles into ground;

(f)  operating and monitoring power roller to compact and smooth
     layers of materials in making roads, pavements and similar
     work;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which spread and smooth
     concrete or bituminous or tar preparations to construct
     roadways, roads or similar work;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, bulldozer
  Operator, excavator
  Operator, pile-driver
  Operator, road-roller

8322  CAR, TAXI AND VAN DRIVERS
 

     Car, taxi and van drivers drive and tend motor cars and vans
to transport  passengers, mail or goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending passenger cars or taxis ;

(b)  driving and tending cars, vans or small trucks to deliver
     mail or goods;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, car
  Driver, taxi
  Driver, van

8331  MOTORISED FARM AND FORESTRY PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Motorised farm and forestry plant operators drive, tend,
operate and  monitor one or more types of motorised, mobile
machinery or equipment used in  farming or forestry operations.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending tractor or self-propelled ploughing,
     planting, harvesting, baling or other special-purpose farm
     machinery, or similar tractor-drawn equipment;

(b)  driving and tending tractor or self-propelled clearing,
     planting, harvesting, timber-carrying or other special-
     purpose forestry machinery;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, timber carrier
  Driver, tractor
  Operator, harvester
  Operator, motorised farm equipment

8324  HEAVY-TRUCK AND LORRY DRIVERS
 

     Heavy-truck and lorry drivers drive and tend heavy motor
vehicles to  transport goods, liquids and heavy materials over
short or long distances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending a heavy motor vehicle, such as a lorry
     with or without trailer or a dump-truck, to transport goods,
     liquids or heavy materials over short or long distances;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, truck/heavy
  Operator, shuttle-car/mine

8311  LOCOMOTIVE-ENGINE DRIVERS
 

     Locomotive-engine drivers drive, or assist in driving,
locomotive engines  to transport passengers and freight.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving or assisting in driving a steam, electric or diesel-
     electric locomotive engine ;

(b)  driving an underground or elevated passenger train;

(c)  driving a locomotive to haul carriages underground or on the
     surface of a mine or quarry;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, engine/mine
  Driver, locomotive
  Driver, train

8323  BUS AND TRAM DRIVERS
 

     Bus and tram drivers drive and tend buses or street tramcars
to transport  passengers, mail or goods.

(a)  driving and tending motor bus, trolley  bus or motor coach
     to transport local or long-distance passengers, mail or
     goods

(b)  driving and tending street tramcar transporting passengers;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, bus
  Driver, tram

8332  EARTH-MOVING- AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Earth-moving- and related plant operators operate and
monitor machines to  excavate, grade, level and compact earth or
similar materials and lay surfaces  of asphalt and concrete.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring excavating machines, equipped with
     moveable shovel, grab-bucket or dragline bucket, to excavate
     and move earth, rock, sand, gravel or similar materials, or
     to tear down buildings or other structures;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines for digging trenches for
     sewers, drainage, water, oil, gas or similar pipelines;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines equipped with concave
     steel blade to move, distribute and level earth, sand, snow
     and other materials;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment to remove sand, gravel
     and mud from bottom of body of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines for hammering wooden,
     concrete or steel piles into ground;

(f)  operating and monitoring power roller to compact and smooth
     layers of materials in making roads, pavements and similar
     work;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which spread and smooth
     concrete or bituminous or tar preparations to construct
     roadways, roads or similar work;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, bulldozer
  Operator, excavator
  Operator, pile-driver
  Operator, road-roller

9331  HAND OR PEDAL VEHICLE DRIVERS
 

     Hand or pedal vehicle drivers propel cycles and similar
vehicles to  transport passengers or goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  loading or unloading goods, or assisting passengers in
     getting on or off a vehicle;

(b)  moving vehicle in the desired direction with due regard to
     other traffic and traffic regulations;

(c)  making minor repairs and keeping vehicle in good order;

(d)  collecting fares or charges;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, pedal vehicle
  Driver, rickshaw
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Rider, motor cycle - 8321

8323  BUS AND TRAM DRIVERS
 

     Bus and tram drivers drive and tend buses or street tramcars
to transport  passengers, mail or goods.

(a)  driving and tending motor bus, trolley  bus or motor coach
     to transport local or long-distance passengers, mail or
     goods

(b)  driving and tending street tramcar transporting passengers;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, bus
  Driver, tram

8324  HEAVY-TRUCK AND LORRY DRIVERS
 

     Heavy-truck and lorry drivers drive and tend heavy motor
vehicles to  transport goods, liquids and heavy materials over
short or long distances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending a heavy motor vehicle, such as a lorry
     with or without trailer or a dump-truck, to transport goods,
     liquids or heavy materials over short or long distances;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, truck/heavy
  Operator, shuttle-car/mine

8311  LOCOMOTIVE-ENGINE DRIVERS
 

     Locomotive-engine drivers drive, or assist in driving,
locomotive engines  to transport passengers and freight.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving or assisting in driving a steam, electric or diesel-
     electric locomotive engine ;

(b)  driving an underground or elevated passenger train;

(c)  driving a locomotive to haul carriages underground or on the
     surface of a mine or quarry;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, engine/mine
  Driver, locomotive
  Driver, train

8322  CAR, TAXI AND VAN DRIVERS
 

     Car, taxi and van drivers drive and tend motor cars and vans
to transport  passengers, mail or goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending passenger cars or taxis ;

(b)  driving and tending cars, vans or small trucks to deliver
     mail or goods;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, car
  Driver, taxi
  Driver, van

8311  LOCOMOTIVE-ENGINE DRIVERS
 

     Locomotive-engine drivers drive, or assist in driving,
locomotive engines  to transport passengers and freight.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving or assisting in driving a steam, electric or diesel-
     electric locomotive engine ;

(b)  driving an underground or elevated passenger train;

(c)  driving a locomotive to haul carriages underground or on the
     surface of a mine or quarry;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, engine/mine
  Driver, locomotive
  Driver, train

7221  BLACKSMITHS, HAMMER-SMITHS AND FORGING-PRESS WORKERS
 

     Blacksmiths, hammer-smiths and forging-press workers draw
wire, hammer  and forge bars, rods, ingots and plates of iron,
steel or other metals to make  and repair various kinds of tools,
metal articles, pieces of equipment,  agricultural and related
implements.

     Tasks include -

(a)  heating metal in forge furnace and manufacturing and
     repairing articles by drawing, bending, cutting, hammering
     metal on an anvil, punching, shearing, joining and hardening
     or tempering;

(b)  shaping heated metal into forgings on power hammer equipped
     with open dies;

(c)  operating closed-die drop hammer to forge metal articles;

(d)  operating a power-press machine equipped with closed dies
to
     forge metal articles;

(e)  drawing wire;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blacksmith
  Drop-hammer worker
  Forging-press worker
  Hammer-smith
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, casting/metal - 8122
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

9211  FARM-HANDS AND LABOURERS
 

     Farm-hands and labourers help with farm work by performing
a variety of  simple farming tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging and shovelling to clear ditches or for other
     purposes;

(b)  loading, unloading various crops and other materials;

(c)  raking, pitching and stacking hay;

(d)  watering and weeding;

(e)  picking fruit, vegetables and various plants;

(f)  helping with planting, harvesting and general farmwork;

(g)  feeding, watering, and cleaning animals and keeping their
     quarters clean;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, farm
  Picker, fruit
Some related occupations classified else where:
  Shepherd - 6121
  Farm worker, skilled/field crops - 6111
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock - 6121

2224  PHARMACISTS 
     Pharmacists apply pharmaceutical concepts and theories by
preparing and  dispensing or selling medicaments and drugs.

     
Tasks include -

(a)   preparing and directing the preparation of medicaments
      according to prescriptions of medical, dental and
      veterinary practitioners, or established formulae;

(b)   checking prescriptions to ensure that recommended dosages
      are not exceeded, and that instructions are understood by
      patient - or person administering the medicament - and
      advising on possible drug incompatibility;

(c)   dispensing medicaments and drugs in hospitals or selling
      them in pharmacies;

(d)   maintaining records, especially of narcotics, poisons and
      habit-forming drugs issued;

(e)   testing drugs to determine identity, purity and strength;

(f)   participating in the development of controls and
      regulations;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Pharmacist

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Chemist, pharmaceutical - 2113

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

9133  HAND-LAUNDERERS AND PRESSERS
 

     Hand-launderers and pressers launder, press or dry-clean
linen and other  textiles by hand.

     Tasks include -

(a)  laundering and pressing linen, clothing, fabrics and similar
     articles by hand in a laundry or other establishment;

(b)  cleaning, by hand and with chemical solutions, clothing,
     fabrics, leather goods and similar articles, in a dry-
     cleaning or other establishment;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Dry-cleaner, hand
  Launderer, hand
  Presser, hand
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, dry-cleaning - 8264
  Machine-operator, pressing/laundry 8264
  Machine-operator, washing/laundry 8264

7416  TOBACCO PREPARERS AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Tobacco preparers and tobacco products makers prepare
tobacco leaves and  make various tobacco products.

     Tasks  include -

(a)  grading cured tobacco leaves by type, quality and locality
     where grown;

(b)  mixing tobacco leaves according to formula to obtain a blend
     of distinct flavour;

(c)  tending vacuum container which moistens tobacco for further
     processing;

(d)  removing midribs and stalks from tobacco leaves and
     shredding tobacco;

(e)  making cigars, cigarettes, snuff and other tobacco products
     by hand or with simple machines;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, tobacco
  Maker, cigar
  Maker, cigarette
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, cigar production - 8279
  Machine-operator, cigarette production - 8279

9161  GARBAGE COLLECTORS
 

     Garbage collectors collect and remove garbage from
buildings, yards,  streets and other public places.

     Tasks include -

(a)  collecting garbage by putting it into bigger containers;

(b)  collecting garbage and loading it onto a vehicle;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Collector, refuse
  Dustman
  Dustwoman

7441  PELT DRESSERS, TANNERS AND FELLMONGERS
 

     Pelt dressers, tanners and fellmongers prepare fur- and
wool-bearing  pelts for making garments and other products, and
make leather from hides and  skins.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sorting and grading pelts, hides and skins;

(b)  removing flesh and fat from pelts before curing;

(c)  removing flesh and hair from hides;

(d)  removing long, coarse hair from pelts and trimming
     underlying hair to even length;

(e)  operating machine to split hides edgeways;

(f)  treating hides to convert them into leather;

(g)  applying dyes to fur pelts;

(h)  dressing and applying dyes and stains to leather;

(i)  stretching and smoothing dressed pelts;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fellmonger
  Grader, pelt
  Tanner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, tanning - 8265

2211  BIOLOGISTS, BOTANISTS, ZOOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Biologists, botanists, zoologists and related professionals
conduct  research, improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and  apply scientific knowledge relating to
biology, microbiology, bacteriology,  cytology, genetics,
zoology, botany and ecology, especially in the fields of 
medicine and agriculture.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   conducting field and laboratory experiments concerning all
      forms of life by identifying and classifying human, animal,
      insect or plant specimens, and studying their origin,
      development, chemical and physical form, structure,
      composition, and life and reproductive processes;

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure, development and characteristics of micro-
      organisms such as bacteria or viruses;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the factors
      involved in the origin, development and transmission of
      hereditary characteristics in human beings, animals or
      plants;

(e)   studying all forms of plant life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(f)   studying all forms of animal life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(g)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure and functions of living cells, and the influence
      of physical and chemical factors upon normal and abnormal
      cells;

(h)   studying inter-relationships of animal and plant life and
      the environmental factors involved, and giving professional
      advice to related disciplines;

(i)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bacteriologist
  Biologist
  Botanist
  Ecologist
  Microbiologist
  Zoologist

2441  ECONOMISTS 
     Economists conduct research to improve or develop economic
concepts,  theories and operational methods used to understand
and describe the behaviour  of national and international markets
for goods, services and labour, and  advise on or apply the
knowledge to draw up economic policies and to formulate 
solutions to present or projected economic problems.

     Tasks include -

(a)   studying, advising on, or dealing with various economic
      aspects, such as production and marketing methods, national
      and international trade trends, monetary, fiscal and
      pricing policies, employment, income, productivity and
      consumption;

(b)   compiling, analysing and interpreting economic data using
      economic theory and a variety of statistical and other
      techniques;

(c)   advising on economic policy and course of action to be
      followed in the light of past, present and projected
      economic factors and trends;

(d)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Econometrician
  Economist

7345  BOOKBINDERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Bookbinders and related workers bind covers to books and
perform  book-finishing operations.

     Tasks include -

(a)  binding books and periodicals by hand;

(b)  setting and operating bookbinding machines;

(c)  embossing designs or titles on books by hand or machine;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Bookbinder
  Embosser, book
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, bookbinding 8252

2451  AUTHORS, JOURNALISTS AND OTHER WRITERS 
     Authors, journalists and other writers write literary works
for  publication or presentation in dramatic form, appraise
merits of artistic  productions, or literary and other works of
art, or write and edit news,  stories and commentaries.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing literary works for publication or
      presentation in dramatic form;

(b)   writing scripts and continuities and preparing programmes
      for stage, film, radio and television productions;

(c)   appraising and writing about merits of literary, musical
      and other works of art, and about artistic performances;

(d)   collecting, reporting and commenting on news and current
      affairs for publication in newspapers and periodicals, or
      for broadcasting by radio or television;

(e)   interviewing politicians and other public figures at press
      conferences and on other occasions, including individual
      interviews recorded for radio or television;

(f)   writing editorials and selecting, revising, arranging and
      editing submitted articles and other material for
      publication in newspapers and periodicals;

(g)   appraising manuscripts submitted for publication in book
      form, making recommendations thereon and editing or
      supervising editing of the material;

(h)   writing advertising copy promoting particular products or
      services;

(i)   selecting, assembling and preparing publicity material
      about business or other organisations for issue through
      press, radio, television and other media;

(j)   designing and writing brochures, handbooks and similar
      technical publications;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Author
  Copywriter, advertising
  Critic
  Editor
  Journalist
  Writer, technical

3131  PHOTOGRAPHERS AND IMAGE AND SOUND RECORDING EQUIPMENT
OPERATORS 
     Photographers and image and sound recording equipment
operators take  photographs, control motion picture and video
cameras and other equipment to  record and edit images and sound.

 
    Tasks include -

(a)   taking photographs for advertising, or other commercial,
      industrial or scientific purposes and to illustrate stories
      and articles in newspapers, magazines and other
      publications;

(b)   taking portrait photographs of persons and groups of
      persons;

(c)   setting and operating motion picture, video, microscopic
      and other specialised cameras, including those for aerial
      photography, to record images;

(d)   controlling equipment to record sound for motion pictures,
      videotapes, gramophone records, audio tapes, digital discs,
      direct broadcasting or other purposes.,

(e)   controlling equipment to edit and mix image and sound
      recordings to ensure satisfactory quality and to create
      special image and sound effects;

(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of image and
      sound recording and editing in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, camera/motion picture
  Operator, recording equipment/sound
  Operator, studio equipment/television
  Photographer

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Mechanic, electronics - 7243
  Photographer, photogravure - 7343
  Photolithographer - 7343
  Repairer, photographic equipment 7311

2451  AUTHORS, JOURNALISTS AND OTHER WRITERS 
     Authors, journalists and other writers write literary works
for  publication or presentation in dramatic form, appraise
merits of artistic  productions, or literary and other works of
art, or write and edit news,  stories and commentaries.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing literary works for publication or
      presentation in dramatic form;

(b)   writing scripts and continuities and preparing programmes
      for stage, film, radio and television productions;

(c)   appraising and writing about merits of literary, musical
      and other works of art, and about artistic performances;

(d)   collecting, reporting and commenting on news and current
      affairs for publication in newspapers and periodicals, or
      for broadcasting by radio or television;

(e)   interviewing politicians and other public figures at press
      conferences and on other occasions, including individual
      interviews recorded for radio or television;

(f)   writing editorials and selecting, revising, arranging and
      editing submitted articles and other material for
      publication in newspapers and periodicals;

(g)   appraising manuscripts submitted for publication in book
      form, making recommendations thereon and editing or
      supervising editing of the material;

(h)   writing advertising copy promoting particular products or
      services;

(i)   selecting, assembling and preparing publicity material
      about business or other organisations for issue through
      press, radio, television and other media;

(j)   designing and writing brochures, handbooks and similar
      technical publications;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Author
  Copywriter, advertising
  Critic
  Editor
  Journalist
  Writer, technical

7137  BUILDING AND RELATED ELECTRICIANS
 

     Building and related electricians install, maintain and
repair electrical  wiring systems and related equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  installing, maintaining and repairing electrical wiring
     systems and related equipment in various buildings such as
     schools, hospitals, commercial establishments, residential
     buildings and other structures;

(b)  installing, maintaining and repairing electrical equipment
     in theatres and radio or television studios;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Electrician
  Electrician, building repairs
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Fitter, electrical - 7241
  Mechanic, electrical - 7241

7241  ELECTRICAL MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Electrical mechanics and fitters fit, adjust, install and
repair  electrical machinery and other electrical apparatus and
equipment in  buildings, factories, workshops, or other places.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, adjusting and repairing various kinds of electrical
     machinery and motors, generators, switchgear and control
     apparatus, instruments, or electrical parts of elevators and
     related equipment;

(b)  fitting, adjusting and repairing electrical parts in
     domestic appliances, industrial machines and other
     appliances, or electrical apparatus in aircraft, ships and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing manufactured electrical products;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Builder, armature
  Fitter, electrical/generator
  Mechanic, electrical
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler electrical equipment - 8282

7137  BUILDING AND RELATED ELECTRICIANS
 

     Building and related electricians install, maintain and
repair electrical  wiring systems and related equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  installing, maintaining and repairing electrical wiring
     systems and related equipment in various buildings such as
     schools, hospitals, commercial establishments, residential
     buildings and other structures;

(b)  installing, maintaining and repairing electrical equipment
     in theatres and radio or television studios;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Electrician
  Electrician, building repairs
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Fitter, electrical - 7241
  Mechanic, electrical - 7241

7241  ELECTRICAL MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Electrical mechanics and fitters fit, adjust, install and
repair  electrical machinery and other electrical apparatus and
equipment in  buildings, factories, workshops, or other places.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, adjusting and repairing various kinds of electrical
     machinery and motors, generators, switchgear and control
     apparatus, instruments, or electrical parts of elevators and
     related equipment;

(b)  fitting, adjusting and repairing electrical parts in
     domestic appliances, industrial machines and other
     appliances, or electrical apparatus in aircraft, ships and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing manufactured electrical products;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Builder, armature
  Fitter, electrical/generator
  Mechanic, electrical
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler electrical equipment - 8282

7137  BUILDING AND RELATED ELECTRICIANS
 

     Building and related electricians install, maintain and
repair electrical  wiring systems and related equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  installing, maintaining and repairing electrical wiring
     systems and related equipment in various buildings such as
     schools, hospitals, commercial establishments, residential
     buildings and other structures;

(b)  installing, maintaining and repairing electrical equipment
     in theatres and radio or television studios;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Electrician
  Electrician, building repairs
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Fitter, electrical - 7241
  Mechanic, electrical - 7241

7241  ELECTRICAL MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Electrical mechanics and fitters fit, adjust, install and
repair  electrical machinery and other electrical apparatus and
equipment in  buildings, factories, workshops, or other places.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, adjusting and repairing various kinds of electrical
     machinery and motors, generators, switchgear and control
     apparatus, instruments, or electrical parts of elevators and
     related equipment;

(b)  fitting, adjusting and repairing electrical parts in
     domestic appliances, industrial machines and other
     appliances, or electrical apparatus in aircraft, ships and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing manufactured electrical products;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Builder, armature
  Fitter, electrical/generator
  Mechanic, electrical
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler electrical equipment - 8282

7137  BUILDING AND RELATED ELECTRICIANS
 

     Building and related electricians install, maintain and
repair electrical  wiring systems and related equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  installing, maintaining and repairing electrical wiring
     systems and related equipment in various buildings such as
     schools, hospitals, commercial establishments, residential
     buildings and other structures;

(b)  installing, maintaining and repairing electrical equipment
     in theatres and radio or television studios;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Electrician
  Electrician, building repairs
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Fitter, electrical - 7241
  Mechanic, electrical - 7241

7241  ELECTRICAL MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Electrical mechanics and fitters fit, adjust, install and
repair  electrical machinery and other electrical apparatus and
equipment in  buildings, factories, workshops, or other places.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, adjusting and repairing various kinds of electrical
     machinery and motors, generators, switchgear and control
     apparatus, instruments, or electrical parts of elevators and
     related equipment;

(b)  fitting, adjusting and repairing electrical parts in
     domestic appliances, industrial machines and other
     appliances, or electrical apparatus in aircraft, ships and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing manufactured electrical products;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Builder, armature
  Fitter, electrical/generator
  Mechanic, electrical
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler electrical equipment - 8282

7137  BUILDING AND RELATED ELECTRICIANS
 

     Building and related electricians install, maintain and
repair electrical  wiring systems and related equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  installing, maintaining and repairing electrical wiring
     systems and related equipment in various buildings such as
     schools, hospitals, commercial establishments, residential
     buildings and other structures;

(b)  installing, maintaining and repairing electrical equipment
     in theatres and radio or television studios;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Electrician
  Electrician, building repairs
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Fitter, electrical - 7241
  Mechanic, electrical - 7241

7241  ELECTRICAL MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Electrical mechanics and fitters fit, adjust, install and
repair  electrical machinery and other electrical apparatus and
equipment in  buildings, factories, workshops, or other places.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, adjusting and repairing various kinds of electrical
     machinery and motors, generators, switchgear and control
     apparatus, instruments, or electrical parts of elevators and
     related equipment;

(b)  fitting, adjusting and repairing electrical parts in
     domestic appliances, industrial machines and other
     appliances, or electrical apparatus in aircraft, ships and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing manufactured electrical products;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Builder, armature
  Fitter, electrical/generator
  Mechanic, electrical
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler electrical equipment - 8282

8223  METAL FINISHING-, PLATING AND COATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Metal finishing-, plating- and coating-machine operators
operate and  monitor equipment which finishes, plates and coats
metal articles or parts, in  order to give them improved
resistance to corrosion and abrasion, for  decorative purposes,
or to impart electrical or magnetic properties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which cleans metal
     articles in preparation for electroplating, galvanising,
     enamelling or similar processes;

(b)  operating and monitoring electroplating equipment;

(c)  operating and monitoring hot-dip equipment used to coat iron
     and steel products

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which automatically coat
     wire with non ferrous metal

(e)  operating and monitoring equipment used to spray molten
     metal or other substances on metal products to provide a
     protective or decorative coating or to build up worn or
     damaged surfaces;

(f)  operating and monitoring equipment used to impart a rust-
     resistant finish to metal articles by treating them with
     chemicals and heating them;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, coating/metal
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal
  Machine-operator, plating/metal

3226  PHYSIOTHERAPISTS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Physiotherapists and related associate professionals treat
disorders of  bones, muscles and parts of the circulatory or the
nervous system by  manipulative methods, and ultrasound, heating,
laser or similar techniques, or  apply physiotherapy and related
therapies as part of the treatment for the physically disabled,
mentally ill or unbalanced.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising communities and individuals on correct body
      postures, for work or otherwise, to avoid injuries and
      strain and to strengthen muscles;


(b)   conducting examinations to make diagnoses of disorders of
      bones, muscles and parts of the circulatory or the nervous
      system to determine proper treatment or refer to Medical
      doctors, if necessary;

(c)   treating disorders of bones, muscles and parts of the
      circulatory or the nervous system by manipulative methods,
      and the use of ultrasound, heating, laser or similar
      techniques;

(d)   massaging client or patient to improve circulation, soothe
      or stimulate nerves, facilitate elimination of waste
      matter, stretch contracted tendons and produce other
      therapeutic effects;

(e)   examining body deformities and disorders to determine and
      write specifications for artificial limbs or other
      appliances, helping to fit them and explaining their use;

(f)   applying physiotherapy and related techniques as part of
      the treatment of the mentally ill or unbalanced;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Chiropractor
  Physiotherapist
  Podiatrist

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Therapist, occupational - 3229

7342  STEREOTYPERS AND ELECTROTYPERS
 

     Stereotypers and electrotypers make printing plates from
set-up type by  stereotyping and electroplating processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making moulds of set-up type with papier mâché, wax or other
     materials;

(b)  making printing plates by casting metal in moulds of papier
     mâché or other material bearing impression of type, or by
     putting lead alloy backing on copper shell made by
     electroplating moulds to reproduce type;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Electrotyper
  Stereotyper

5143  UNDERTAKERS AND EMBALMERS
 
     Undertakers and embalmers perform various tasks in the
disposal of dead  human bodies.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making arrangements for, and conducting, funerals,
     cremations and burials;

(b)  embalming human bodies to retard or arrest the process of
     decay;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Embalmer
  Undertaker

7345  BOOKBINDERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Bookbinders and related workers bind covers to books and
perform  book-finishing operations.

     Tasks include -

(a)  binding books and periodicals by hand;

(b)  setting and operating bookbinding machines;

(c)  embossing designs or titles on books by hand or machine;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Bookbinder
  Embosser, book
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, bookbinding 8252

7346  SILK-SCREEN, BLOCK AND TEXTILE PRINTERS
 
 

     Silk-screen, block and textile printers cut stencils for use
in  silk-screen printing and print on paper, metal, textiles and
other materials  with silk-screens, blocks of rubber, wood or
other materials, or engraved  printing rollers.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting stencils for silk-screen printing;

(b)  printing on paper, metal, textiles and other materials by
     silk-screen process;

(c)  printing designs and patterns on cloth or wallpaper with
     engraved blocks or machines equipped with engraved rollers;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cutter, stencil/silk-screen
  Printer, block
  Printer, silk-screen
  Printer, textile

7436  SEWERS, EMBROIDERERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Sewers, embroiderers and related workers sew together,
repair and  decorate garments, gloves and other products of
textile, fur, leather and  other materials by hand or by using
simple sewing machines, and perform  various related tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  performing various sewing tasks in making, altering and
     repairing articles of textile, leather and other materials;

(b)  embroidering decorative designs on garments or materials;

(c)  sewing sails, tents, awnings and similar articles;

(d)  assembling and covering umbrellas;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Embroiderer
  Maker, umbrella
  Sewer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Dressmaker - 7433
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, sewing - 8263

2211  BIOLOGISTS, BOTANISTS, ZOOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Biologists, botanists, zoologists and related professionals
conduct  research, improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and  apply scientific knowledge relating to
biology, microbiology, bacteriology,  cytology, genetics,
zoology, botany and ecology, especially in the fields of 
medicine and agriculture.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   conducting field and laboratory experiments concerning all
      forms of life by identifying and classifying human, animal,
      insect or plant specimens, and studying their origin,
      development, chemical and physical form, structure,
      composition, and life and reproductive processes;

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure, development and characteristics of micro-
      organisms such as bacteria or viruses;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the factors
      involved in the origin, development and transmission of
      hereditary characteristics in human beings, animals or
      plants;

(e)   studying all forms of plant life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(f)   studying all forms of animal life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(g)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure and functions of living cells, and the influence
      of physical and chemical factors upon normal and abnormal
      cells;

(h)   studying inter-relationships of animal and plant life and
      the environmental factors involved, and giving professional
      advice to related disciplines;

(i)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bacteriologist
  Biologist
  Botanist
  Ecologist
  Microbiologist
  Zoologist

7324  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED DECORATIVE PAINTERS
 

     Glass, ceramics and related decorative painters decorate
articles made of  wood, metal, textiles, glass, ceramics and
other materials, and plan, lay out  and paint letters and designs
to make signs.

     Tasks include -

(a)  painting designs on articles with a brush, by spraying, or
     by transferring designs using stencils, transfers, rubber
     stamps and other means;

(b)  applying, for decorative purposes, paint, glaze, enamel,
     stain, varnish, lacquer and similar materials on articles
     by spraying or dipping;

(c)  coating mirror glass with silver solutions;

(d)  laying out and painting letters and designs to make signs;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, glass
  Painter, decorative
  Sign-writer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, painting/ceramics - 8131
  Machine-operator, painting/glass - 8131
  Painter, building - 7141
  Painter, manufactured articles - 7142
  Painter, vehicle - 7142

7313  JEWELLERY AND PRECIOUS-METAL WORKERS
 

     Jewellery and precious-metal workers make and repair
jewellery and  precious metalware, cut and set gems and engrave
designs on jewellery and  precious metal articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  casting jewellery and other non-ferrous metal articles by
     hand;

(b)  making complete jewellery articles such as rings, brooches
     and bracelets;

(c)  cutting and polishing gems and setting them in jewellery
     articles;

(d)  making and repairing precious metalware;

(e)  rolling and beating precious metals; engraving letters and
     designs on jewellery and precious metalware;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, jewellery
  Goldsmith
  Jeweller
  Setter, gem
  Silversmith

7324  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED DECORATIVE PAINTERS
 

     Glass, ceramics and related decorative painters decorate
articles made of  wood, metal, textiles, glass, ceramics and
other materials, and plan, lay out  and paint letters and designs
to make signs.

     Tasks include -

(a)  painting designs on articles with a brush, by spraying, or
     by transferring designs using stencils, transfers, rubber
     stamps and other means;

(b)  applying, for decorative purposes, paint, glaze, enamel,
     stain, varnish, lacquer and similar materials on articles
     by spraying or dipping;

(c)  coating mirror glass with silver solutions;

(d)  laying out and painting letters and designs to make signs;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, glass
  Painter, decorative
  Sign-writer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, painting/ceramics - 8131
  Machine-operator, painting/glass - 8131
  Painter, building - 7141
  Painter, manufactured articles - 7142
  Painter, vehicle - 7142

2212  PHARMACOLOGISTS, PATHOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Pharmacologists, pathologists and related professionals
conduct research,  improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and apply  scientific knowledge relating to
anatomy, biochemistry, biophysics,  physiology, pathology, or
pharmacology, in such fields as medicine,  agriculture or
industry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   studying and conducting experiments 

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the chemical
      composition and processes of living organisms;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the life
      processes and functions of human, animal or plant organs,
      tissues, cells, glands and systems under normal and
      abnormal or exceptional conditions;

(e)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the nature,
      causes and development of human, animal or plant diseases
      and disorders;

(f)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the effects
      of drugs and other substances on the tissues, organs and
      physiological processes of human beings and animals, and
      improving existing or developing new drugs;

(g)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Anatomist
  Biochemist
  Biophysicist
  Pathologist
  Pharmacologist
  Physiologist

2145  MECHANICAL ENGINEERS 
     Mechanical engineers conduct research and advise on, design,
and direct  production of machines, machinery and industrial
plant, equipment and systems,  and advise on and direct their
functioning, maintenance and repairs, or study  and advise on
technological aspects of particular materials, products or 
processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   advising on and designing machinery and tools for
      manufacturing, mining, construction, agricultural work, and
      other industrial purposes;

(b)   advising on and designing steam, internal combustion and
      other non-electric motors and engines used for propulsion
      of railway locomotives, road vehicles or aircraft, or for
      driving industrial or other machinery;

(c)   advising on and designing ships' propulsion systems, power
      plant, heating and ventilation systems, steering gear,
      pumps, and other mechanical equipment;

(d)   advising on and designing hulls and superstructures of
      ships and other vessels;

(e)   advising on and designing airframes, undercarriages and
      other equipment for aircraft;

(f)   advising on and designing road vehicle bodies, suspension
      systems, brakes and other components;

(g)   advising on and designing heating, ventilation and
      refrigeration systems and equipment;

(h)   advising on and designing mechanical plant and equipment
      for the release, control and utilisation of nuclear energy;

(i)   advising on and designing non-electrical parts of apparatus
      or products such as word processors, computers, precision
      instruments, cameras and projectors, etc.;

(j)   specifying and checking production or installation methods
      and work of agricultural and other machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment or
      systems;

(k)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      efficient functioning and safety of machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment, or
      systems;

(l)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(m)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      machines, machinery, tools, motors, engines, industrial
      plant, equipment, or systems;

(n)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(o)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;


(p)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(q)   performing related tasks;

(r)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, aeronautical
  Engineer, marine
  Engineer, mechanical
  Engineer, mechanical/agriculture
  Engineer, nuclear power
  Technologist, engineering/mechanical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, ship: 3141

2144  ELECTRONICS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS ENGINEERS 
     Electronics and telecommunications engineers conduct
research and advise  on, design, and direct construction of
electronic systems and equipment, and  advise on and direct their
functioning, maintenance and repairs, or study and  advise on
technological aspects of particular materials, products or
processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   advising on and designing electronic devices, systems,
      motors and equipment such as computers or
      telecommunications equipment;

(b)   specifying production or installation methods, materials
      and quality standards and directing production or
      installation work of electronic or telecommunications
      products and systems;

(c)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      efficient functioning and safety of electronic systems,
      motors and equipment;

(d)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(e)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      electronic systems, motors and equipment;

(f)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(g)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, electronics
  Engineer, telecommunications
  Engineer, telecommunications/radio
  Technologist, engineering/electronics
  Technologist, engineering/telecommunications

2145  MECHANICAL ENGINEERS 
     Mechanical engineers conduct research and advise on, design,
and direct  production of machines, machinery and industrial
plant, equipment and systems,  and advise on and direct their
functioning, maintenance and repairs, or study  and advise on
technological aspects of particular materials, products or 
processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   advising on and designing machinery and tools for
      manufacturing, mining, construction, agricultural work, and
      other industrial purposes;

(b)   advising on and designing steam, internal combustion and
      other non-electric motors and engines used for propulsion
      of railway locomotives, road vehicles or aircraft, or for
      driving industrial or other machinery;

(c)   advising on and designing ships' propulsion systems, power
      plant, heating and ventilation systems, steering gear,
      pumps, and other mechanical equipment;

(d)   advising on and designing hulls and superstructures of
      ships and other vessels;

(e)   advising on and designing airframes, undercarriages and
      other equipment for aircraft;

(f)   advising on and designing road vehicle bodies, suspension
      systems, brakes and other components;

(g)   advising on and designing heating, ventilation and
      refrigeration systems and equipment;

(h)   advising on and designing mechanical plant and equipment
      for the release, control and utilisation of nuclear energy;

(i)   advising on and designing non-electrical parts of apparatus
      or products such as word processors, computers, precision
      instruments, cameras and projectors, etc.;

(j)   specifying and checking production or installation methods
      and work of agricultural and other machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment or
      systems;

(k)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      efficient functioning and safety of machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment, or
      systems;

(l)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(m)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      machines, machinery, tools, motors, engines, industrial
      plant, equipment, or systems;

(n)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(o)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;


(p)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(q)   performing related tasks;

(r)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, aeronautical
  Engineer, marine
  Engineer, mechanical
  Engineer, mechanical/agriculture
  Engineer, nuclear power
  Technologist, engineering/mechanical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, ship: 3141

2142  CIVIL ENGINEERS 
     Civil engineers conduct research and advise on, design, and
direct  construction, and manage the operation and maintenance
of civil engineering  structures, or study and advise on
technological aspects of particular  materials.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and developing new or improved theories
      and methods related to civil engineering;

(b)   advising on and designing structures such as bridges, dams,
      docks, roads, airports, railways, canals, pipelines, waste-
      disposal and flood-control systems, and industrial and
      other large buildings;

(c)   determining and specifying construction methods, materials
      and quality standards, and directing construction work;


(d)   establishing control systems to ensure efficient
      functioning of structures as well as safety and
      environmental protection;

(e)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(f)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      structures;

(g)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials;

(h)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, civil
  Engineer, civil/aerodrome construction
  Engineer, civil/bridge construction
  Engineer, civil/building construction
  Engineer, civil/highway and street construction
  Technologist, building materials

2146  CHEMICAL ENGINEERS 
     Chemical engineers conduct research and develop, advise on
and direct  commercial-scale chemical processes and production
of various substances and  items such as crude oil, petroleum
derivatives, food and drink products,  medicaments, or synthetic
materials, and direct maintenance and repair of  industrial
plant, or study and advise on technological aspects of particular        
materials, products or processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and advising on, and developing
      commercial-scale chemical processes to refine crude oil and
      other liquids or gases, and to produce substances and items
      such as petroleum derivatives, explosives, food and drink
      products, medicaments, or synthetic materials;

(b)   specifying relevant aspects of the construction of chemical
      manufacturing plants;

(c)   specifying production methods, materials and quality
      standards and ensuring that they conform to specifications;

(d)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      safety and efficiency of production operations;

(e)   locating and correcting malfunctions;


(f)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      equipment;

(g)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(h)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Engineer, chemical
  Engineer, chemical process
  Engineer, chemical/petroleum and natural gas
  Technologist, food and drink
  Technologist, fuel

2142  CIVIL ENGINEERS 
     Civil engineers conduct research and advise on, design, and
direct  construction, and manage the operation and maintenance
of civil engineering  structures, or study and advise on
technological aspects of particular  materials.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and developing new or improved theories
      and methods related to civil engineering;

(b)   advising on and designing structures such as bridges, dams,
      docks, roads, airports, railways, canals, pipelines, waste-
      disposal and flood-control systems, and industrial and
      other large buildings;

(c)   determining and specifying construction methods, materials
      and quality standards, and directing construction work;


(d)   establishing control systems to ensure efficient
      functioning of structures as well as safety and
      environmental protection;

(e)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(f)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      structures;

(g)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials;

(h)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, civil
  Engineer, civil/aerodrome construction
  Engineer, civil/bridge construction
  Engineer, civil/building construction
  Engineer, civil/highway and street construction
  Technologist, building materials

2139  COMPUTING PROFESSIONALS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers computing professionals not
classified elsewhere  in Minor group 213, Computing
professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who have a
general  knowledge of both computer hardware and software.

     In such cases tasks would include-.

(a)   designing and implementing computer software applications,
      and computer operating systems,

(b)   maintaining and updating computer software applications,
      and computer operating systems;

(c)   installing computers and performing diagnostics on computer
      hardware;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, computer applications

2131  COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGNERS AND ANALYSTS 
     Computer systems designers and analysts conduct research,
improve or  develop computing concepts and operational methods,
and  advise on or engage  in their practical application.

     Tasks include:

(a)   researching into the principles and operational methods of
      computers and computer-based systems for information
      communication and processing, planning, design, process
      control and production; development and maintenance of
      computer software, as well as data structures and
      databases, algorithms, artificial intelligence and
      robotics;

(b)   maintaining data dictionary and management systems of
      databases to ensure validity and safety of data;

(c)   contributing to and keeping up with technical developments
      of computers, peripherals, computing methods and software,
      their potential and limitations;


(d)   analysing computer users' requirements, by consultation,
to
      determine hardware and software configurations and
      development needs and preparing cost-benefit analyses-

(e)   writing programming specifications and preparing technical
      reports and instruction manuals specifying methods of
      operation and maintenance of the computer hardware and
      software configurations:.

(f)   designing, writing, maintaining and updating software which
      controls the overall functioning of computers and which
      links hardware and computer applications software

(g)   designing and implementing communication networks between
      different computer installations

(h)   developing improved methods and instruments, including
      computer languages, for writing, documenting and
      maintaining computer software,

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Analyst, communications/computers
  Analyst, database/computers
  Analyst, systems/computers
  Database administrator
  Designer, systems/computers
  Engineer, computer systems

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, computer applications 2139
  Technician, computer: 3121

2149  ARCHITECTS, ENGINEERS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS NOT
ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers architects, engineers and related
professionals  not classified elsewhere in Minor group 214,
Architects, engineers and related  professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  conducting research, advising on or developing
procedures concerning  efficiency of production and work
organisation, as well as those who perform  quantity surveying
and those who study and advise on technological aspects of 
particular materials, products and manufacturing processes.

     In such cases tasks would include

(a)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising  on planning and production methods;

(b)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising on methods to promote the efficient, safe and
      economic utilisation of personnel, material and equipment;

(c)   making recommendations regarding methods of work and
      sequence of operations and supervising their
      implementation;

(d)   making recommendations and supervising time and motion
      aspects of work organisation;

(e)   advising on most efficient layout of plant or
      establishment;

(f)   identifying potential hazards and introducing safety
      procedures and devices;

(g)   preparing and monitoring cost estimates and bills of
      quantities for architectural and construction projects;

(h)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular manufacturing processes, such as those related
      to glass, ceramics, textiles, leather products, wood, and
      printing;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, industrial efficiency
  Engineer, production
  Engineer, time and motion study
  Surveyor, quantity
  Technologist, textiles

2145  MECHANICAL ENGINEERS 
     Mechanical engineers conduct research and advise on, design,
and direct  production of machines, machinery and industrial
plant, equipment and systems,  and advise on and direct their
functioning, maintenance and repairs, or study  and advise on
technological aspects of particular materials, products or 
processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   advising on and designing machinery and tools for
      manufacturing, mining, construction, agricultural work, and
      other industrial purposes;

(b)   advising on and designing steam, internal combustion and
      other non-electric motors and engines used for propulsion
      of railway locomotives, road vehicles or aircraft, or for
      driving industrial or other machinery;

(c)   advising on and designing ships' propulsion systems, power
      plant, heating and ventilation systems, steering gear,
      pumps, and other mechanical equipment;

(d)   advising on and designing hulls and superstructures of
      ships and other vessels;

(e)   advising on and designing airframes, undercarriages and
      other equipment for aircraft;

(f)   advising on and designing road vehicle bodies, suspension
      systems, brakes and other components;

(g)   advising on and designing heating, ventilation and
      refrigeration systems and equipment;

(h)   advising on and designing mechanical plant and equipment
      for the release, control and utilisation of nuclear energy;

(i)   advising on and designing non-electrical parts of apparatus
      or products such as word processors, computers, precision
      instruments, cameras and projectors, etc.;

(j)   specifying and checking production or installation methods
      and work of agricultural and other machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment or
      systems;

(k)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      efficient functioning and safety of machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment, or
      systems;

(l)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(m)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      machines, machinery, tools, motors, engines, industrial
      plant, equipment, or systems;

(n)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(o)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;


(p)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(q)   performing related tasks;

(r)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, aeronautical
  Engineer, marine
  Engineer, mechanical
  Engineer, mechanical/agriculture
  Engineer, nuclear power
  Technologist, engineering/mechanical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, ship: 3141

2142  CIVIL ENGINEERS 
     Civil engineers conduct research and advise on, design, and
direct  construction, and manage the operation and maintenance
of civil engineering  structures, or study and advise on
technological aspects of particular  materials.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and developing new or improved theories
      and methods related to civil engineering;

(b)   advising on and designing structures such as bridges, dams,
      docks, roads, airports, railways, canals, pipelines, waste-
      disposal and flood-control systems, and industrial and
      other large buildings;

(c)   determining and specifying construction methods, materials
      and quality standards, and directing construction work;


(d)   establishing control systems to ensure efficient
      functioning of structures as well as safety and
      environmental protection;

(e)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(f)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      structures;

(g)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials;

(h)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, civil
  Engineer, civil/aerodrome construction
  Engineer, civil/bridge construction
  Engineer, civil/building construction
  Engineer, civil/highway and street construction
  Technologist, building materials

2143  ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS 
     Electrical engineers conduct research and advise on, design,
and direct  construction of electrical systems, motors and
equipment, and advise on and  direct their functioning,
maintenance and repairs, or study and advise on  technological
aspects of particular materials, products and processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   advising on and designing systems for electrical power
      generation, transmission and distribution;

(b)   advising on and designing systems for electrical motors,
      electrical traction and other equipment, or electrical
      domestic appliances;

(c)   specifying electrical installation and application in
      industrial and other buildings and objects and if necessary
      directing some of the work;

(d)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      efficient functioning and safety of electrical generating
      and distribution systems, motors and equipment;

(e)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(f)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      electrical systems, motors and equipment;

(g)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(h)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, electrical
  Engineer, electrical/electric power generation
  Engineer, electrical/electromechanical equipment
  Technologist, engineering/electrical

2144  ELECTRONICS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS ENGINEERS 
     Electronics and telecommunications engineers conduct
research and advise  on, design, and direct construction of
electronic systems and equipment, and  advise on and direct their
functioning, maintenance and repairs, or study and  advise on
technological aspects of particular materials, products or
processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   advising on and designing electronic devices, systems,
      motors and equipment such as computers or
      telecommunications equipment;

(b)   specifying production or installation methods, materials
      and quality standards and directing production or
      installation work of electronic or telecommunications
      products and systems;

(c)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      efficient functioning and safety of electronic systems,
      motors and equipment;

(d)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(e)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      electronic systems, motors and equipment;

(f)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(g)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, electronics
  Engineer, telecommunications
  Engineer, telecommunications/radio
  Technologist, engineering/electronics
  Technologist, engineering/telecommunications

3143  AIRCRAFT PILOTS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Aircraft pilots and related associate professionals control
the operation  of mechanical, electrical and electronic
equipment, in order to navigate  aircraft for transporting
passengers, mail and freight and perform related  preflight and
in-flight tasks.

  
   Tasks include -

(a)   flying and navigating aircraft in accordance with
      established control and operating procedures;

(b)   preparing and submitting flight plan or examining standard
      flight plan;

(c)   controlling the operation of mechanical, electrical and
      electronic equipment and ensuring that all instruments and
      controls work properly;

(d)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of flying
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Engineer, flight
  Navigator, flight
  Pilot, aircraft

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Instructor, flying - 3340

2145  MECHANICAL ENGINEERS 
     Mechanical engineers conduct research and advise on, design,
and direct  production of machines, machinery and industrial
plant, equipment and systems,  and advise on and direct their
functioning, maintenance and repairs, or study  and advise on
technological aspects of particular materials, products or 
processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   advising on and designing machinery and tools for
      manufacturing, mining, construction, agricultural work, and
      other industrial purposes;

(b)   advising on and designing steam, internal combustion and
      other non-electric motors and engines used for propulsion
      of railway locomotives, road vehicles or aircraft, or for
      driving industrial or other machinery;

(c)   advising on and designing ships' propulsion systems, power
      plant, heating and ventilation systems, steering gear,
      pumps, and other mechanical equipment;

(d)   advising on and designing hulls and superstructures of
      ships and other vessels;

(e)   advising on and designing airframes, undercarriages and
      other equipment for aircraft;

(f)   advising on and designing road vehicle bodies, suspension
      systems, brakes and other components;

(g)   advising on and designing heating, ventilation and
      refrigeration systems and equipment;

(h)   advising on and designing mechanical plant and equipment
      for the release, control and utilisation of nuclear energy;

(i)   advising on and designing non-electrical parts of apparatus
      or products such as word processors, computers, precision
      instruments, cameras and projectors, etc.;

(j)   specifying and checking production or installation methods
      and work of agricultural and other machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment or
      systems;

(k)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      efficient functioning and safety of machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment, or
      systems;

(l)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(m)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      machines, machinery, tools, motors, engines, industrial
      plant, equipment, or systems;

(n)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(o)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;


(p)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(q)   performing related tasks;

(r)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, aeronautical
  Engineer, marine
  Engineer, mechanical
  Engineer, mechanical/agriculture
  Engineer, nuclear power
  Technologist, engineering/mechanical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, ship: 3141

2211  BIOLOGISTS, BOTANISTS, ZOOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Biologists, botanists, zoologists and related professionals
conduct  research, improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and  apply scientific knowledge relating to
biology, microbiology, bacteriology,  cytology, genetics,
zoology, botany and ecology, especially in the fields of 
medicine and agriculture.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   conducting field and laboratory experiments concerning all
      forms of life by identifying and classifying human, animal,
      insect or plant specimens, and studying their origin,
      development, chemical and physical form, structure,
      composition, and life and reproductive processes;

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure, development and characteristics of micro-
      organisms such as bacteria or viruses;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the factors
      involved in the origin, development and transmission of
      hereditary characteristics in human beings, animals or
      plants;

(e)   studying all forms of plant life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(f)   studying all forms of animal life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(g)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure and functions of living cells, and the influence
      of physical and chemical factors upon normal and abnormal
      cells;

(h)   studying inter-relationships of animal and plant life and
      the environmental factors involved, and giving professional
      advice to related disciplines;

(i)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bacteriologist
  Biologist
  Botanist
  Ecologist
  Microbiologist
  Zoologist

2142  CIVIL ENGINEERS 
     Civil engineers conduct research and advise on, design, and
direct  construction, and manage the operation and maintenance
of civil engineering  structures, or study and advise on
technological aspects of particular  materials.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and developing new or improved theories
      and methods related to civil engineering;

(b)   advising on and designing structures such as bridges, dams,
      docks, roads, airports, railways, canals, pipelines, waste-
      disposal and flood-control systems, and industrial and
      other large buildings;

(c)   determining and specifying construction methods, materials
      and quality standards, and directing construction work;


(d)   establishing control systems to ensure efficient
      functioning of structures as well as safety and
      environmental protection;

(e)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(f)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      structures;

(g)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials;

(h)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, civil
  Engineer, civil/aerodrome construction
  Engineer, civil/bridge construction
  Engineer, civil/building construction
  Engineer, civil/highway and street construction
  Technologist, building materials

2149  ARCHITECTS, ENGINEERS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS NOT
ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers architects, engineers and related
professionals  not classified elsewhere in Minor group 214,
Architects, engineers and related  professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  conducting research, advising on or developing
procedures concerning  efficiency of production and work
organisation, as well as those who perform  quantity surveying
and those who study and advise on technological aspects of 
particular materials, products and manufacturing processes.

     In such cases tasks would include

(a)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising  on planning and production methods;

(b)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising on methods to promote the efficient, safe and
      economic utilisation of personnel, material and equipment;

(c)   making recommendations regarding methods of work and
      sequence of operations and supervising their
      implementation;

(d)   making recommendations and supervising time and motion
      aspects of work organisation;

(e)   advising on most efficient layout of plant or
      establishment;

(f)   identifying potential hazards and introducing safety
      procedures and devices;

(g)   preparing and monitoring cost estimates and bills of
      quantities for architectural and construction projects;

(h)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular manufacturing processes, such as those related
      to glass, ceramics, textiles, leather products, wood, and
      printing;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, industrial efficiency
  Engineer, production
  Engineer, time and motion study
  Surveyor, quantity
  Technologist, textiles

2145  MECHANICAL ENGINEERS 
     Mechanical engineers conduct research and advise on, design,
and direct  production of machines, machinery and industrial
plant, equipment and systems,  and advise on and direct their
functioning, maintenance and repairs, or study  and advise on
technological aspects of particular materials, products or 
processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   advising on and designing machinery and tools for
      manufacturing, mining, construction, agricultural work, and
      other industrial purposes;

(b)   advising on and designing steam, internal combustion and
      other non-electric motors and engines used for propulsion
      of railway locomotives, road vehicles or aircraft, or for
      driving industrial or other machinery;

(c)   advising on and designing ships' propulsion systems, power
      plant, heating and ventilation systems, steering gear,
      pumps, and other mechanical equipment;

(d)   advising on and designing hulls and superstructures of
      ships and other vessels;

(e)   advising on and designing airframes, undercarriages and
      other equipment for aircraft;

(f)   advising on and designing road vehicle bodies, suspension
      systems, brakes and other components;

(g)   advising on and designing heating, ventilation and
      refrigeration systems and equipment;

(h)   advising on and designing mechanical plant and equipment
      for the release, control and utilisation of nuclear energy;

(i)   advising on and designing non-electrical parts of apparatus
      or products such as word processors, computers, precision
      instruments, cameras and projectors, etc.;

(j)   specifying and checking production or installation methods
      and work of agricultural and other machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment or
      systems;

(k)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      efficient functioning and safety of machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment, or
      systems;

(l)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(m)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      machines, machinery, tools, motors, engines, industrial
      plant, equipment, or systems;

(n)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(o)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;


(p)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(q)   performing related tasks;

(r)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, aeronautical
  Engineer, marine
  Engineer, mechanical
  Engineer, mechanical/agriculture
  Engineer, nuclear power
  Technologist, engineering/mechanical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, ship: 3141

2142  CIVIL ENGINEERS 
     Civil engineers conduct research and advise on, design, and
direct  construction, and manage the operation and maintenance
of civil engineering  structures, or study and advise on
technological aspects of particular  materials.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and developing new or improved theories
      and methods related to civil engineering;

(b)   advising on and designing structures such as bridges, dams,
      docks, roads, airports, railways, canals, pipelines, waste-
      disposal and flood-control systems, and industrial and
      other large buildings;

(c)   determining and specifying construction methods, materials
      and quality standards, and directing construction work;


(d)   establishing control systems to ensure efficient
      functioning of structures as well as safety and
      environmental protection;

(e)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(f)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      structures;

(g)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials;

(h)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, civil
  Engineer, civil/aerodrome construction
  Engineer, civil/bridge construction
  Engineer, civil/building construction
  Engineer, civil/highway and street construction
  Technologist, building materials

2145  MECHANICAL ENGINEERS 
     Mechanical engineers conduct research and advise on, design,
and direct  production of machines, machinery and industrial
plant, equipment and systems,  and advise on and direct their
functioning, maintenance and repairs, or study  and advise on
technological aspects of particular materials, products or 
processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   advising on and designing machinery and tools for
      manufacturing, mining, construction, agricultural work, and
      other industrial purposes;

(b)   advising on and designing steam, internal combustion and
      other non-electric motors and engines used for propulsion
      of railway locomotives, road vehicles or aircraft, or for
      driving industrial or other machinery;

(c)   advising on and designing ships' propulsion systems, power
      plant, heating and ventilation systems, steering gear,
      pumps, and other mechanical equipment;

(d)   advising on and designing hulls and superstructures of
      ships and other vessels;

(e)   advising on and designing airframes, undercarriages and
      other equipment for aircraft;

(f)   advising on and designing road vehicle bodies, suspension
      systems, brakes and other components;

(g)   advising on and designing heating, ventilation and
      refrigeration systems and equipment;

(h)   advising on and designing mechanical plant and equipment
      for the release, control and utilisation of nuclear energy;

(i)   advising on and designing non-electrical parts of apparatus
      or products such as word processors, computers, precision
      instruments, cameras and projectors, etc.;

(j)   specifying and checking production or installation methods
      and work of agricultural and other machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment or
      systems;

(k)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      efficient functioning and safety of machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment, or
      systems;

(l)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(m)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      machines, machinery, tools, motors, engines, industrial
      plant, equipment, or systems;

(n)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(o)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;


(p)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(q)   performing related tasks;

(r)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, aeronautical
  Engineer, marine
  Engineer, mechanical
  Engineer, mechanical/agriculture
  Engineer, nuclear power
  Technologist, engineering/mechanical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, ship: 3141

2419  BUSINESS PROFESSIONALS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers business professionals not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 241, Business professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  studying, advising on and applying operational
methods relating to various  aspects of business undertakings,
such as marketing, advertising, public  relations, application
of rules concerning patents, or steps to be taken in  setting up
and running a business, and home economics principles.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   conducting research and determining or advising on existing
      level of sales for particular products or services, and
      assessing potential markets and future trends;

(b)   planning, advising on or directing and coordinating
      production of advertising campaigns;

(c)   studying, advising on and conducting public relations
      programmes with a view to improving the public's knowledge
      and understanding of the enterprise or establishment in
      question;

(d)   giving advice concerning patents and assisting in preparing
      applications or examining applications submitted for
      registration, and writing reports setting out reasons for
      or against the granting of a patent;

(e)   studying and advising on financial, legal, organisational,
      marketing and other aspects connected with setting up and
      running a business;

(f)   studying, interpreting and informing about and advising on
      principles of home economics and management with a view to
      promoting welfare of families, as well as the consumption
      of household goods, or the promotion of new products;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Account executive, advertising
  Analyst, market research
  Home economist
  Officer, public relations
  Patent agent

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Company secretary - 1231

2147  MINING ENGINEERS, METALLURGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Mining engineers, metallurgists and related professionals
conduct  research, design and develop and maintain commercial-
scale methods of  extracting metals from their ores, or minerals,
water, oil or gas from the  earth and of developing new alloys,
ceramic and other materials, or study and  advise on
technological aspects of particular materials, products or
processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and advising on, designing and
      developing new or improved methods to deal with engineering
      aspects of mining and oil, gas or water extraction;

(b)   determining most suitable methods of efficient mining and
      extraction, types of machinery to be used, planning layout
      and directing construction of shafts and tunnels;

(c)   determining drilling site and devising methods of
      controlling the flow of water, oil or gas from wells;

(d)   planning and directing storage, initial treatment and
      transportation of water, oil or gas;

(e)   establishing safety standards and procedures and first-aid
      facilities, especially underground;

(f)   conducting research, developing methods of extracting
      metals from their ores and advising on their application;

(g)   investigating properties of metals and alloys, developing
      new alloys and advising on and supervising technical
      aspects of metal and alloy manufacture and processing;

(h)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials or processes;

(i)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists in particular with geologists and
      geophysicists;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, mining
  Engineer, mining/coal
  Engineer, mining/metal
  Engineer, mining/petroleum and natural gas
  Metallurgist, extractive
  Technologist, extractive

2145  MECHANICAL ENGINEERS 
     Mechanical engineers conduct research and advise on, design,
and direct  production of machines, machinery and industrial
plant, equipment and systems,  and advise on and direct their
functioning, maintenance and repairs, or study  and advise on
technological aspects of particular materials, products or 
processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   advising on and designing machinery and tools for
      manufacturing, mining, construction, agricultural work, and
      other industrial purposes;

(b)   advising on and designing steam, internal combustion and
      other non-electric motors and engines used for propulsion
      of railway locomotives, road vehicles or aircraft, or for
      driving industrial or other machinery;

(c)   advising on and designing ships' propulsion systems, power
      plant, heating and ventilation systems, steering gear,
      pumps, and other mechanical equipment;

(d)   advising on and designing hulls and superstructures of
      ships and other vessels;

(e)   advising on and designing airframes, undercarriages and
      other equipment for aircraft;

(f)   advising on and designing road vehicle bodies, suspension
      systems, brakes and other components;

(g)   advising on and designing heating, ventilation and
      refrigeration systems and equipment;

(h)   advising on and designing mechanical plant and equipment
      for the release, control and utilisation of nuclear energy;

(i)   advising on and designing non-electrical parts of apparatus
      or products such as word processors, computers, precision
      instruments, cameras and projectors, etc.;

(j)   specifying and checking production or installation methods
      and work of agricultural and other machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment or
      systems;

(k)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      efficient functioning and safety of machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment, or
      systems;

(l)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(m)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      machines, machinery, tools, motors, engines, industrial
      plant, equipment, or systems;

(n)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(o)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;


(p)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(q)   performing related tasks;

(r)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, aeronautical
  Engineer, marine
  Engineer, mechanical
  Engineer, mechanical/agriculture
  Engineer, nuclear power
  Technologist, engineering/mechanical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, ship: 3141

2146  CHEMICAL ENGINEERS 
     Chemical engineers conduct research and develop, advise on
and direct  commercial-scale chemical processes and production
of various substances and  items such as crude oil, petroleum
derivatives, food and drink products,  medicaments, or synthetic
materials, and direct maintenance and repair of  industrial
plant, or study and advise on technological aspects of particular        
materials, products or processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and advising on, and developing
      commercial-scale chemical processes to refine crude oil and
      other liquids or gases, and to produce substances and items
      such as petroleum derivatives, explosives, food and drink
      products, medicaments, or synthetic materials;

(b)   specifying relevant aspects of the construction of chemical
      manufacturing plants;

(c)   specifying production methods, materials and quality
      standards and ensuring that they conform to specifications;

(d)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      safety and efficiency of production operations;

(e)   locating and correcting malfunctions;


(f)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      equipment;

(g)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(h)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Engineer, chemical
  Engineer, chemical process
  Engineer, chemical/petroleum and natural gas
  Technologist, food and drink
  Technologist, fuel

2145  MECHANICAL ENGINEERS 
     Mechanical engineers conduct research and advise on, design,
and direct  production of machines, machinery and industrial
plant, equipment and systems,  and advise on and direct their
functioning, maintenance and repairs, or study  and advise on
technological aspects of particular materials, products or 
processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   advising on and designing machinery and tools for
      manufacturing, mining, construction, agricultural work, and
      other industrial purposes;

(b)   advising on and designing steam, internal combustion and
      other non-electric motors and engines used for propulsion
      of railway locomotives, road vehicles or aircraft, or for
      driving industrial or other machinery;

(c)   advising on and designing ships' propulsion systems, power
      plant, heating and ventilation systems, steering gear,
      pumps, and other mechanical equipment;

(d)   advising on and designing hulls and superstructures of
      ships and other vessels;

(e)   advising on and designing airframes, undercarriages and
      other equipment for aircraft;

(f)   advising on and designing road vehicle bodies, suspension
      systems, brakes and other components;

(g)   advising on and designing heating, ventilation and
      refrigeration systems and equipment;

(h)   advising on and designing mechanical plant and equipment
      for the release, control and utilisation of nuclear energy;

(i)   advising on and designing non-electrical parts of apparatus
      or products such as word processors, computers, precision
      instruments, cameras and projectors, etc.;

(j)   specifying and checking production or installation methods
      and work of agricultural and other machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment or
      systems;

(k)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      efficient functioning and safety of machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment, or
      systems;

(l)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(m)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      machines, machinery, tools, motors, engines, industrial
      plant, equipment, or systems;

(n)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(o)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;


(p)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(q)   performing related tasks;

(r)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, aeronautical
  Engineer, marine
  Engineer, mechanical
  Engineer, mechanical/agriculture
  Engineer, nuclear power
  Technologist, engineering/mechanical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, ship: 3141

2146  CHEMICAL ENGINEERS 
     Chemical engineers conduct research and develop, advise on
and direct  commercial-scale chemical processes and production
of various substances and  items such as crude oil, petroleum
derivatives, food and drink products,  medicaments, or synthetic
materials, and direct maintenance and repair of  industrial
plant, or study and advise on technological aspects of particular        
materials, products or processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and advising on, and developing
      commercial-scale chemical processes to refine crude oil and
      other liquids or gases, and to produce substances and items
      such as petroleum derivatives, explosives, food and drink
      products, medicaments, or synthetic materials;

(b)   specifying relevant aspects of the construction of chemical
      manufacturing plants;

(c)   specifying production methods, materials and quality
      standards and ensuring that they conform to specifications;

(d)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      safety and efficiency of production operations;

(e)   locating and correcting malfunctions;


(f)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      equipment;

(g)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(h)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Engineer, chemical
  Engineer, chemical process
  Engineer, chemical/petroleum and natural gas
  Technologist, food and drink
  Technologist, fuel

2149  ARCHITECTS, ENGINEERS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS NOT
ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers architects, engineers and related
professionals  not classified elsewhere in Minor group 214,
Architects, engineers and related  professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  conducting research, advising on or developing
procedures concerning  efficiency of production and work
organisation, as well as those who perform  quantity surveying
and those who study and advise on technological aspects of 
particular materials, products and manufacturing processes.

     In such cases tasks would include

(a)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising  on planning and production methods;

(b)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising on methods to promote the efficient, safe and
      economic utilisation of personnel, material and equipment;

(c)   making recommendations regarding methods of work and
      sequence of operations and supervising their
      implementation;

(d)   making recommendations and supervising time and motion
      aspects of work organisation;

(e)   advising on most efficient layout of plant or
      establishment;

(f)   identifying potential hazards and introducing safety
      procedures and devices;

(g)   preparing and monitoring cost estimates and bills of
      quantities for architectural and construction projects;

(h)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular manufacturing processes, such as those related
      to glass, ceramics, textiles, leather products, wood, and
      printing;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, industrial efficiency
  Engineer, production
  Engineer, time and motion study
  Surveyor, quantity
  Technologist, textiles

2142  CIVIL ENGINEERS 
     Civil engineers conduct research and advise on, design, and
direct  construction, and manage the operation and maintenance
of civil engineering  structures, or study and advise on
technological aspects of particular  materials.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and developing new or improved theories
      and methods related to civil engineering;

(b)   advising on and designing structures such as bridges, dams,
      docks, roads, airports, railways, canals, pipelines, waste-
      disposal and flood-control systems, and industrial and
      other large buildings;

(c)   determining and specifying construction methods, materials
      and quality standards, and directing construction work;


(d)   establishing control systems to ensure efficient
      functioning of structures as well as safety and
      environmental protection;

(e)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(f)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      structures;

(g)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials;

(h)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, civil
  Engineer, civil/aerodrome construction
  Engineer, civil/bridge construction
  Engineer, civil/building construction
  Engineer, civil/highway and street construction
  Technologist, building materials

3141  SHIPS' ENGINEERS 
     Ships' engineers control and participate in the operation,
maintenance  and repair of mechanical, electrical and electronic
equipment and machinery on  board ship, or perform related
supporting functions on shore.

     Tasks include -

(a)   controlling and participating in the operation, maintenance
      and repair of mechanical, electrical and electronic
      equipment and machinery on board ship;

(b)   ordering fuel and other engine-room department stores and
      maintaining record of operations;

(c)   performing technical supervision of the installation,
      maintenance and repair of ship's machinery and equipment
      to ensure compliance with specifications and regulations;

(d)   applying knowledge of principles and practices relating to
      ship's machinery and equipment in order to identify and
      solve problems arising in the course of their work;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
     
  Engineer, ship

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, marine - 2145

2145  MECHANICAL ENGINEERS 
     Mechanical engineers conduct research and advise on, design,
and direct  production of machines, machinery and industrial
plant, equipment and systems,  and advise on and direct their
functioning, maintenance and repairs, or study  and advise on
technological aspects of particular materials, products or 
processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   advising on and designing machinery and tools for
      manufacturing, mining, construction, agricultural work, and
      other industrial purposes;

(b)   advising on and designing steam, internal combustion and
      other non-electric motors and engines used for propulsion
      of railway locomotives, road vehicles or aircraft, or for
      driving industrial or other machinery;

(c)   advising on and designing ships' propulsion systems, power
      plant, heating and ventilation systems, steering gear,
      pumps, and other mechanical equipment;

(d)   advising on and designing hulls and superstructures of
      ships and other vessels;

(e)   advising on and designing airframes, undercarriages and
      other equipment for aircraft;

(f)   advising on and designing road vehicle bodies, suspension
      systems, brakes and other components;

(g)   advising on and designing heating, ventilation and
      refrigeration systems and equipment;

(h)   advising on and designing mechanical plant and equipment
      for the release, control and utilisation of nuclear energy;

(i)   advising on and designing non-electrical parts of apparatus
      or products such as word processors, computers, precision
      instruments, cameras and projectors, etc.;

(j)   specifying and checking production or installation methods
      and work of agricultural and other machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment or
      systems;

(k)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      efficient functioning and safety of machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment, or
      systems;

(l)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(m)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      machines, machinery, tools, motors, engines, industrial
      plant, equipment, or systems;

(n)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(o)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;


(p)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(q)   performing related tasks;

(r)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, aeronautical
  Engineer, marine
  Engineer, mechanical
  Engineer, mechanical/agriculture
  Engineer, nuclear power
  Technologist, engineering/mechanical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, ship: 3141

3141  SHIPS' ENGINEERS 
     Ships' engineers control and participate in the operation,
maintenance  and repair of mechanical, electrical and electronic
equipment and machinery on  board ship, or perform related
supporting functions on shore.

     Tasks include -

(a)   controlling and participating in the operation, maintenance
      and repair of mechanical, electrical and electronic
      equipment and machinery on board ship;

(b)   ordering fuel and other engine-room department stores and
      maintaining record of operations;

(c)   performing technical supervision of the installation,
      maintenance and repair of ship's machinery and equipment
      to ensure compliance with specifications and regulations;

(d)   applying knowledge of principles and practices relating to
      ship's machinery and equipment in order to identify and
      solve problems arising in the course of their work;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
     
  Engineer, ship

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, marine - 2145

2131  COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGNERS AND ANALYSTS 
     Computer systems designers and analysts conduct research,
improve or  develop computing concepts and operational methods,
and  advise on or engage  in their practical application.

     Tasks include:

(a)   researching into the principles and operational methods of
      computers and computer-based systems for information
      communication and processing, planning, design, process
      control and production; development and maintenance of
      computer software, as well as data structures and
      databases, algorithms, artificial intelligence and
      robotics;

(b)   maintaining data dictionary and management systems of
      databases to ensure validity and safety of data;

(c)   contributing to and keeping up with technical developments
      of computers, peripherals, computing methods and software,
      their potential and limitations;


(d)   analysing computer users' requirements, by consultation,
to
      determine hardware and software configurations and
      development needs and preparing cost-benefit analyses-

(e)   writing programming specifications and preparing technical
      reports and instruction manuals specifying methods of
      operation and maintenance of the computer hardware and
      software configurations:.

(f)   designing, writing, maintaining and updating software which
      controls the overall functioning of computers and which
      links hardware and computer applications software

(g)   designing and implementing communication networks between
      different computer installations

(h)   developing improved methods and instruments, including
      computer languages, for writing, documenting and
      maintaining computer software,

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Analyst, communications/computers
  Analyst, database/computers
  Analyst, systems/computers
  Database administrator
  Designer, systems/computers
  Engineer, computer systems

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, computer applications 2139
  Technician, computer: 3121

2149  ARCHITECTS, ENGINEERS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS NOT
ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers architects, engineers and related
professionals  not classified elsewhere in Minor group 214,
Architects, engineers and related  professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  conducting research, advising on or developing
procedures concerning  efficiency of production and work
organisation, as well as those who perform  quantity surveying
and those who study and advise on technological aspects of 
particular materials, products and manufacturing processes.

     In such cases tasks would include

(a)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising  on planning and production methods;

(b)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising on methods to promote the efficient, safe and
      economic utilisation of personnel, material and equipment;

(c)   making recommendations regarding methods of work and
      sequence of operations and supervising their
      implementation;

(d)   making recommendations and supervising time and motion
      aspects of work organisation;

(e)   advising on most efficient layout of plant or
      establishment;

(f)   identifying potential hazards and introducing safety
      procedures and devices;

(g)   preparing and monitoring cost estimates and bills of
      quantities for architectural and construction projects;

(h)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular manufacturing processes, such as those related
      to glass, ceramics, textiles, leather products, wood, and
      printing;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, industrial efficiency
  Engineer, production
  Engineer, time and motion study
  Surveyor, quantity
  Technologist, textiles

2144  ELECTRONICS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS ENGINEERS 
     Electronics and telecommunications engineers conduct
research and advise  on, design, and direct construction of
electronic systems and equipment, and  advise on and direct their
functioning, maintenance and repairs, or study and  advise on
technological aspects of particular materials, products or
processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   advising on and designing electronic devices, systems,
      motors and equipment such as computers or
      telecommunications equipment;

(b)   specifying production or installation methods, materials
      and quality standards and directing production or
      installation work of electronic or telecommunications
      products and systems;

(c)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      efficient functioning and safety of electronic systems,
      motors and equipment;

(d)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(e)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      electronic systems, motors and equipment;

(f)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(g)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, electronics
  Engineer, telecommunications
  Engineer, telecommunications/radio
  Technologist, engineering/electronics
  Technologist, engineering/telecommunications

2149  ARCHITECTS, ENGINEERS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS NOT
ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers architects, engineers and related
professionals  not classified elsewhere in Minor group 214,
Architects, engineers and related  professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  conducting research, advising on or developing
procedures concerning  efficiency of production and work
organisation, as well as those who perform  quantity surveying
and those who study and advise on technological aspects of 
particular materials, products and manufacturing processes.

     In such cases tasks would include

(a)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising  on planning and production methods;

(b)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising on methods to promote the efficient, safe and
      economic utilisation of personnel, material and equipment;

(c)   making recommendations regarding methods of work and
      sequence of operations and supervising their
      implementation;

(d)   making recommendations and supervising time and motion
      aspects of work organisation;

(e)   advising on most efficient layout of plant or
      establishment;

(f)   identifying potential hazards and introducing safety
      procedures and devices;

(g)   preparing and monitoring cost estimates and bills of
      quantities for architectural and construction projects;

(h)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular manufacturing processes, such as those related
      to glass, ceramics, textiles, leather products, wood, and
      printing;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, industrial efficiency
  Engineer, production
  Engineer, time and motion study
  Surveyor, quantity
  Technologist, textiles

2141  ARCHITECTS, TOWN AND TRAFFIC PLANNERS 
     Architects, town and traffic planners conduct research and
advise on and  design residential, commercial and industrial
buildings, layout of towns,  landscapes and traffic systems, and
plan and monitor their construction,  maintenance and
rehabilitation.

     Tasks include:

(a)   developing new or improved architectural theories and
      methods-

(b)   inspecting sites, consulting with clients and making
      recommendations regarding style and other aspects of
      construction;

(c)   designing buildings, preparing detailed drawings and plans
      for their construction and rehabilitation and making
      necessary contacts to ensure feasibility of projects
      regarding style, cost, timing, compliance with regulations,
      etc.;

(d)   identifying and finding best solutions for problems
      regarding function and quality of interior environments of
      buildings and making necessary designs, drawings and plans;

(e)   monitoring construction to ensure compliance with
      specifications;

(f)   planning layout and coordinating development of urban
      areas;

(g)   planning and designing the development of land areas for
      parks, schools, institutions, airports, roadways and
      related projects, and for commercial, industrial and
      residential sites;

(h)   planning and advising on routing and control of road and
      other traffic for efficiency and safety;

(i)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks; supervising other workers.

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Architect, building
  Architect, interior
  Architect, landscape
  Planner, traffic
  Planner, urban

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Decorator, interior: 3471
  Designer, decoration: 3471

2143  ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS 
     Electrical engineers conduct research and advise on, design,
and direct  construction of electrical systems, motors and
equipment, and advise on and  direct their functioning,
maintenance and repairs, or study and advise on  technological
aspects of particular materials, products and processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   advising on and designing systems for electrical power
      generation, transmission and distribution;

(b)   advising on and designing systems for electrical motors,
      electrical traction and other equipment, or electrical
      domestic appliances;

(c)   specifying electrical installation and application in
      industrial and other buildings and objects and if necessary
      directing some of the work;

(d)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      efficient functioning and safety of electrical generating
      and distribution systems, motors and equipment;

(e)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(f)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      electrical systems, motors and equipment;

(g)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(h)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, electrical
  Engineer, electrical/electric power generation
  Engineer, electrical/electromechanical equipment
  Technologist, engineering/electrical

2149  ARCHITECTS, ENGINEERS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS NOT
ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers architects, engineers and related
professionals  not classified elsewhere in Minor group 214,
Architects, engineers and related  professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  conducting research, advising on or developing
procedures concerning  efficiency of production and work
organisation, as well as those who perform  quantity surveying
and those who study and advise on technological aspects of 
particular materials, products and manufacturing processes.

     In such cases tasks would include

(a)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising  on planning and production methods;

(b)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising on methods to promote the efficient, safe and
      economic utilisation of personnel, material and equipment;

(c)   making recommendations regarding methods of work and
      sequence of operations and supervising their
      implementation;

(d)   making recommendations and supervising time and motion
      aspects of work organisation;

(e)   advising on most efficient layout of plant or
      establishment;

(f)   identifying potential hazards and introducing safety
      procedures and devices;

(g)   preparing and monitoring cost estimates and bills of
      quantities for architectural and construction projects;

(h)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular manufacturing processes, such as those related
      to glass, ceramics, textiles, leather products, wood, and
      printing;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, industrial efficiency
  Engineer, production
  Engineer, time and motion study
  Surveyor, quantity
  Technologist, textiles

7323  GLASS ENGRAVERS AND ETCHERS
 

     Glass engravers and etchers engrave and etch designs on
glass articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  engraving monograms and ornamental designs on glassware;

(b)  etching decorative designs, calibration markings and other
     figures on glass articles;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cutter, crystal glass
  Engraver, glass
  Etcher, glass

7313  JEWELLERY AND PRECIOUS-METAL WORKERS
 

     Jewellery and precious-metal workers make and repair
jewellery and  precious metalware, cut and set gems and engrave
designs on jewellery and  precious metal articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  casting jewellery and other non-ferrous metal articles by
     hand;

(b)  making complete jewellery articles such as rings, brooches
     and bracelets;

(c)  cutting and polishing gems and setting them in jewellery
     articles;

(d)  making and repairing precious metalware;

(e)  rolling and beating precious metals; engraving letters and
     designs on jewellery and precious metalware;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, jewellery
  Goldsmith
  Jeweller
  Setter, gem
  Silversmith

7343  PRINTING ENGRAVERS AND ETCHERS
 

     Printing engravers and etchers engrave lithographic stones
and printing  plates, rollers, dies and blocks by various
processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting designs through film applied to surface of
     lithographic stones;

(b)  engraving steel and copper plates, rollers, dies or wood,
     rubber and linoleum blocks by hand;

(c)  engraving metal plates and rollers by machine;

(d)  transferring designs from lithographic stone to metal
     plates;

(e)  performing all or several tasks in preparing printing plates
     by photogravure process;

(f)  etching metal plates or rollers with acid and retouching;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Engraver, printing/lithographic stone
  Engraver, printing/metal plate
  Etcher, printing/metal plate
  Photo-engraver
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Designer, graphic - 3471

2452  SCULPTORS, PAINTERS AND RELATED ARTISTS 
     Sculptors, painters and related artists create and execute
works of art  by sculpting, painting, drawing, creating cartoons,
engraving or using related  techniques.

     Tasks include -

(a)   creating representational or abstract three-dimensional or
      relief forms by shaping and combining materials such as
      wood, stone, clay or metal;

(b)   creating representational or abstract drawings and
      paintings using pencils, ink, chalk, oil paints, water
      colours or through the application of other techniques;

(c)   creating drawings and engraving or etching them on metal,
      wood, or other materials;

(d)   creating cartoons to depict persons and events, often in
      caricature;

(e)   creating and executing designs and illustrations for books,
      magazines, advertising and similar purposes;

(f)   restoring damaged, soiled and faded paintings and other art
      objects;

(g)   painting miniatures;

(h)   per-forming related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Artist, commercial
  Cartoonist
  Engraver-etcher, artistic
  Painter, portrait
  Restorer, picture
  Sculptor

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Designer, industrial products - 3471

7344  PHOTOGRAPHIC AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Photographic and related workers develop and process
photographic film  and make prints or slides.

     Tasks include -

(a)  processing black and white or colour film and plates to
     obtain negatives or transparent positives;

(b)  printing black and white or colour photographs;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Darkroom worker, film developing/colour photography
  Developer, film/colour
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, film developing 8224

2211  BIOLOGISTS, BOTANISTS, ZOOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Biologists, botanists, zoologists and related professionals
conduct  research, improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and  apply scientific knowledge relating to
biology, microbiology, bacteriology,  cytology, genetics,
zoology, botany and ecology, especially in the fields of 
medicine and agriculture.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   conducting field and laboratory experiments concerning all
      forms of life by identifying and classifying human, animal,
      insect or plant specimens, and studying their origin,
      development, chemical and physical form, structure,
      composition, and life and reproductive processes;

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure, development and characteristics of micro-
      organisms such as bacteria or viruses;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the factors
      involved in the origin, development and transmission of
      hereditary characteristics in human beings, animals or
      plants;

(e)   studying all forms of plant life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(f)   studying all forms of animal life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(g)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure and functions of living cells, and the influence
      of physical and chemical factors upon normal and abnormal
      cells;

(h)   studying inter-relationships of animal and plant life and
      the environmental factors involved, and giving professional
      advice to related disciplines;

(i)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bacteriologist
  Biologist
  Botanist
  Ecologist
  Microbiologist
  Zoologist

2212  PHARMACOLOGISTS, PATHOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Pharmacologists, pathologists and related professionals
conduct research,  improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and apply  scientific knowledge relating to
anatomy, biochemistry, biophysics,  physiology, pathology, or
pharmacology, in such fields as medicine,  agriculture or
industry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   studying and conducting experiments 

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the chemical
      composition and processes of living organisms;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the life
      processes and functions of human, animal or plant organs,
      tissues, cells, glands and systems under normal and
      abnormal or exceptional conditions;

(e)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the nature,
      causes and development of human, animal or plant diseases
      and disorders;

(f)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the effects
      of drugs and other substances on the tissues, organs and
      physiological processes of human beings and animals, and
      improving existing or developing new drugs;

(g)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Anatomist
  Biochemist
  Biophysicist
  Pathologist
  Pharmacologist
  Physiologist

2223  VETERINARIANS 
     Veterinarians conduct research, improve or develop concepts,
theories and  operational methods, and apply medical knowledge
in the veterinary field.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods;

(b)   conducting examinations and diagnosing diseases or injuries
      of animals;

(c)   administering surgical or medical veterinary treatment;

(d)   testing dairy and other herds and inoculating animals
      against diseases;

(e)   advising on care and breeding of animals;

(f)   inspecting quality, purity and safety of food made wholly
      or partly from raw materials of animal origin intended for
      human consumption;

(g)   assisting in epidemiological, radiological and other
      surveillance of animal health;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Veterinarian
  Veterinarian, epidemiology

7129  BUILDING FRAME AND RELATED TRADES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers building frame and related trades
workers not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 712, Building
frame and related trades  workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who perform
miscellaneous  construction and building maintenance tasks.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  performing miscellaneous construction and building
     maintenance work on structures such as office buildings,
     apartment houses, factories and similar establishments in
     good repair;

(b)  performing construction, maintenance or repair work at
     unusual heights;

(c)  erecting temporary metal or wooden scaffolding on building
     sites;

(d)  demolishing buildings and other structures;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Demolition worker
  Housebuilder, non-traditional materials
  Scaffolder
  Steeplejack
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Labourer, construction/buildings 9313
  Labourer, demolition - 9313

7214  STRUCTURAL-METAL PREPARERS AND ERECTORS
 

     Structural-metal preparers and erectors shape, assemble and
erect heavy  metal girders and plates to form structures and
frameworks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  marking metal members as a guide when drilling, cutting, and
     shaping them for use in buildings, ships and other
     structures;

(b)  drilling, cutting and shaping structural steel in a
     workshop;

(c)  erecting steel members for buildings, bridges and other
     constructions;

(d)  assembling and erecting the framework and other metal parts
     of ships' structures;

(e)  shaping and fitting structural-steel plates of ships under
     construction or repair;

(f)  riveting structural-metal members by hand, machine or
     pneumatic riveter;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Erector, structural metal
  Preparer, structural metal
  Riveter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, rivet production 8211

7232  AIRCRAFT ENGINE MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Aircraft engine mechanics and fitters fit, service, repair
and overhaul  aircraft engines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, examining, testing and servicing aircraft engines;

(b)  replacing engine components or complete engines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitters engine/aircraft
  Mechanic, engine/aircraft
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, textile machinery - 8281

7129  BUILDING FRAME AND RELATED TRADES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers building frame and related trades
workers not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 712, Building
frame and related trades  workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who perform
miscellaneous  construction and building maintenance tasks.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  performing miscellaneous construction and building
     maintenance work on structures such as office buildings,
     apartment houses, factories and similar establishments in
     good repair;

(b)  performing construction, maintenance or repair work at
     unusual heights;

(c)  erecting temporary metal or wooden scaffolding on building
     sites;

(d)  demolishing buildings and other structures;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Demolition worker
  Housebuilder, non-traditional materials
  Scaffolder
  Steeplejack
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Labourer, construction/buildings 9313
  Labourer, demolition - 9313

7243  ELECTRONICS MECHANICS AND SERVICERS
 

     Electronics mechanics and servicers service and repair radio
and  television equipment, tape recorders, video cassette
recorders, and other  audio-visual equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  examining radio or television equipment, tape recorders,
     video cassette recorders, and other audio-visual equipment,
     replacing defective parts and making adjustments and
     repairs;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Erector, radio aerial
  Mechanic, electronics/audiovisual equipment
  Servicer, electronics equipment

7233  AGRICULTURAL- OR INDUSTRIAL-MACHINERY MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Agricultural- or industrial-machinery mechanics and fitters
fit, install,  examine, service and repair engines (except motor 
vehicle and aircraft  engines), agricultural  or industrial
machinery and mechanical equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, installing, examining, servicing and repairing
     engines (except motor vehicle and aircraft engines),
     agricultural or industrial machinery and mechanical
     equipment;

(b)  oiling and greasing stationary engines, machinery and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing new machinery and mechanical
     equipment for conformity with standards and specifications;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/marine
  Fitter, mining machinery
  Fitter, textile machinery
  Mechanic, construction machinery
  Mechanic, farm machinery
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/aircraft - 8281

7214  STRUCTURAL-METAL PREPARERS AND ERECTORS
 

     Structural-metal preparers and erectors shape, assemble and
erect heavy  metal girders and plates to form structures and
frameworks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  marking metal members as a guide when drilling, cutting, and
     shaping them for use in buildings, ships and other
     structures;

(b)  drilling, cutting and shaping structural steel in a
     workshop;

(c)  erecting steel members for buildings, bridges and other
     constructions;

(d)  assembling and erecting the framework and other metal parts
     of ships' structures;

(e)  shaping and fitting structural-steel plates of ships under
     construction or repair;

(f)  riveting structural-metal members by hand, machine or
     pneumatic riveter;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Erector, structural metal
  Preparer, structural metal
  Riveter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, rivet production 8211

7243  ELECTRONICS MECHANICS AND SERVICERS
 

     Electronics mechanics and servicers service and repair radio
and  television equipment, tape recorders, video cassette
recorders, and other  audio-visual equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  examining radio or television equipment, tape recorders,
     video cassette recorders, and other audio-visual equipment,
     replacing defective parts and making adjustments and
     repairs;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Erector, radio aerial
  Mechanic, electronics/audiovisual equipment
  Servicer, electronics equipment

7233  AGRICULTURAL- OR INDUSTRIAL-MACHINERY MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Agricultural- or industrial-machinery mechanics and fitters
fit, install,  examine, service and repair engines (except motor 
vehicle and aircraft  engines), agricultural  or industrial
machinery and mechanical equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, installing, examining, servicing and repairing
     engines (except motor vehicle and aircraft engines),
     agricultural or industrial machinery and mechanical
     equipment;

(b)  oiling and greasing stationary engines, machinery and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing new machinery and mechanical
     equipment for conformity with standards and specifications;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/marine
  Fitter, mining machinery
  Fitter, textile machinery
  Mechanic, construction machinery
  Mechanic, farm machinery
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/aircraft - 8281

9120  SHOE CLEANING AND OTHER STREET SERVICES ELEMENTARY OCCUPATIONS
 

     Shoe cleaning and other street services elementary
occupations usually  include cleaning shoes, washing car windows,
running errands and providing  other on-the-spot street services.
(a)  obtaining the materials necessary to perform cleaning
     services;

(b)  cleaning and polishing shoes;

(c)  cleaning and polishing car windows;

(d)  running errands;

(e)  receiving immediate payment;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Errand boy
  Shoe-polisher
  Washer, hand/street (car windows)

5149  OTHER PERSONAL SERVICES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers personal services workers not
classified elsewhere  in Minor group 514, Other personal services
workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who undertake
to be dancing  partners or social escorts, or perform duties of
club or night-club hostesses  or hosts.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  accompanying clients to restaurants and other outings;

(b)  acting as a dancing partner;

(c)  welcoming clients to a night-club and ensuring that they are
     entertained well;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Escort, social
  Host, club
  Hostess, club
  Partner, dancing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Companion - 5142

2451  AUTHORS, JOURNALISTS AND OTHER WRITERS 
     Authors, journalists and other writers write literary works
for  publication or presentation in dramatic form, appraise
merits of artistic  productions, or literary and other works of
art, or write and edit news,  stories and commentaries.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing literary works for publication or
      presentation in dramatic form;

(b)   writing scripts and continuities and preparing programmes
      for stage, film, radio and television productions;

(c)   appraising and writing about merits of literary, musical
      and other works of art, and about artistic performances;

(d)   collecting, reporting and commenting on news and current
      affairs for publication in newspapers and periodicals, or
      for broadcasting by radio or television;

(e)   interviewing politicians and other public figures at press
      conferences and on other occasions, including individual
      interviews recorded for radio or television;

(f)   writing editorials and selecting, revising, arranging and
      editing submitted articles and other material for
      publication in newspapers and periodicals;

(g)   appraising manuscripts submitted for publication in book
      form, making recommendations thereon and editing or
      supervising editing of the material;

(h)   writing advertising copy promoting particular products or
      services;

(i)   selecting, assembling and preparing publicity material
      about business or other organisations for issue through
      press, radio, television and other media;

(j)   designing and writing brochures, handbooks and similar
      technical publications;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Author
  Copywriter, advertising
  Critic
  Editor
  Journalist
  Writer, technical

3116  CHEMICAL ENGINEERING TECHNICIANS 
     Chemical engineering technicians perform technical tasks
connected with  chemical engineering research, as well as with
the design, manufacture,  construction, operation, maintenance
and repair of chemical plant.

     Tasks include -

(a)   providing technical assistance connected with research and
      the development of industrial chemical processes, plant and
      equipment, or testing prototypes;

(b)   designing and preparing layouts of chemical plant according
      to the specifications given;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for manufacture and
      installation according to the specifications given;

(d)   providing technical supervision of the construction,
      installation, operation, maintenance and repair of chemical
      plant to ensure satisfactory performance and compliance
      with specifications and regulations;

(e)   applying technical knowledge of chemical engineering
      principles and practices in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;


(f)   providing technical assistance regarding technological
      aspects of particular materials, products and processes;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, engineering/chemical
  Technician, engineering/chemical process
  Technician, engineering/petroleum

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Kiln-operator, chemical and related processes - 8152
  Machine-operator, blending/chemical and related processes
        - 8151

3112  CIVIL ENGINEERING TECHNICIANS 

     Civil engineering technicians perform technical tasks
connected with  civil engineering research, as well as with the
design, construction,  operation, maintenance and repair of
buildings and other structures, such as  water supply and sewage
systems, bridges, roads, dams and airports.

     Tasks include -

(a)   performing or helping with field and laboratory tests of
      soils and construction materials;

(b)   providing technical assistance connected with the
      construction of buildings and other structures, and with
      surveys or the preparation of survey reports;

(c)   representing building architects and civil engineers on
      construction sites to ensure compliance with design
      specifications and maintenance of desired standards of
      materials and work;

(d)   applying technical knowledge of building and civil
      engineering principles and practices in order to identify
      and solve problems arising in the course of their work;

(e)   assisting with the preparation of detailed estimates of
      quantities and costs of materials and labour required for
      projects, according to the specifications given;

(f)   organising maintenance and repairs;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Clerk of works
  Technician, engineering/civil
  Technician, surveying

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Surveyor, marine - 3115
  Surveyor, quantity - 2149

3113  ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING TECHNICIANS 

     Electrical engineering technicians perform technical tasks
connected with  electrical engineering research, as well as with
the design, manufacture,  assembly, construction, operation,
maintenance and repair of electrical  equipment, facilities and
distribution systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)   providing technical assistance connected with research and
      the development of electrical equipment and facilities, or
      testing prototypes;

(b)   designing and preparing blueprints of electrical
      installations and circuitry according to the specifications
      given;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for manufacture and
      installation according to the specifications given;

(d)   providing technical supervision of the manufacture,
      installation, utilisation, maintenance and repair of
      electrical systems and equipment to ensure satisfactory
      performance and compliance with specifications and
      regulations;

(e)   applying technical knowledge of electrical engineering
      principles and practices in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Technician, engineering/electrical
  Technician, engineering/electrical (electric power
        transmission)

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Assembler, electrical equipment - 8282
  Mechanic, electrical - 7241

3114  ELECTRONICS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS ENGINEERING TECHNICIANS 
     Electronics and telecommunications engineering technicians
perform  technical tasks connected with electronic and
telecommunications engineering  research, as well as with the
design, manufacture, assembly, construction,  operation,
maintenance and repair of electronic equipment and electronic and

electromechanical telecommunications systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)   providing technical assistance connected with research and
      the development of electronic and telecommunications
      equipment, or testing prototypes;

(b)   designing and preparing blueprints of electronic circuitry
      according to the specifications given;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for the manufacture and
      installation of electronic and telecommunications
      equipment, according to the specifications given;

(d)   providing technical supervision of the manufacture,
      utilisation, maintenance and repair of electronic equipment
      and telecommunications systems to ensure satisfactory
      performance and compliance with specifications and
      regulations;

(e)   applying technical knowledge of electronic and
      telecommunications engineering principles and practices in
      order to identify and solve problems arising in the course
      of their work;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Technician, engineering/electronics
  Technician, engineering/telecommunications

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Assembler, electronic equipment - 8283
  Mechanic, electronics - 7243

3115  MECHANICAL ENGINEERING TECHNICIANS 
     Mechanical engineering technicians perform technical tasks
connected with  mechanical engineering research, as well as with
the design, manufacture,  assembly, construction, operation,
maintenance and repair of machines and  mechanical installations
and facilities.

     Tasks include -

(a)   providing technical assistance connected with research and
      the development of machines and mechanical installations,
      facilities and components, or testing prototypes;

(b)   designing and preparing layouts of machines and mechanical
      installations, facilities and components according to the
      specifications given;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for manufacture and
      installation according to the specifications given;

(d)   providing technical supervision of manufacture,
      utilisation, maintenance and repair of machines and
      mechanical installations, facilities and components to
      ensure satisfactory performance and compliance with
      specifications and regulations;

(e)   applying technical knowledge of machinery and mechanical
      engineering principles and practices in order to identify
      and solve problems arising in the course of their work;

(f)   developing and monitoring the implementation of safety
      standards and procedures for marine survey work in relation
      to ships' hulls, equipment and cargoes;


(g)   coordinating and supervising activities of workers engaged
      in dry-docking vessels for cleaning, painting and repair;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Technician,engineering/aeronautics
  Technician, engineering/marine
  Technician, engineering/mechanical
  Technician,engineering/nuclear power

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Assembler, mechanical machinery 8281
  Mechanic, industrial machinery - 7233

7323  GLASS ENGRAVERS AND ETCHERS
 

     Glass engravers and etchers engrave and etch designs on
glass articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  engraving monograms and ornamental designs on glassware;

(b)  etching decorative designs, calibration markings and other
     figures on glass articles;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cutter, crystal glass
  Engraver, glass
  Etcher, glass

7343  PRINTING ENGRAVERS AND ETCHERS
 

     Printing engravers and etchers engrave lithographic stones
and printing  plates, rollers, dies and blocks by various
processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting designs through film applied to surface of
     lithographic stones;

(b)  engraving steel and copper plates, rollers, dies or wood,
     rubber and linoleum blocks by hand;

(c)  engraving metal plates and rollers by machine;

(d)  transferring designs from lithographic stone to metal
     plates;

(e)  performing all or several tasks in preparing printing plates
     by photogravure process;

(f)  etching metal plates or rollers with acid and retouching;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Engraver, printing/lithographic stone
  Engraver, printing/metal plate
  Etcher, printing/metal plate
  Photo-engraver
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Designer, graphic - 3471

2442  SOCIOLOGISTS, ANTHROPOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS
 
     Sociologists, anthropologists and related professionals
investigate and  describe the social structure of societies, the
origin and evolution of  humanity, and the interdependence
between environmental conditions and human  activities, and make
the knowledge obtained available as a basis for policy 
decisions.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research on the origin, development, structure,
      social patterns, organisations and inter-relationships of
      human society;

(b)   tracing the origin and evolution of humanity through the
      study of changing characteristics and cultural and social
      institutions;

(c)   tracing the development of humanity through the material
      remains of its past, such as dwellings, temples, tools,
      pottery, coins, weapons, or sculpture;

(d)   studying physical and climatic aspects of areas and
      'regions, and correlating these findings with the economic,
      social and cultural activities;

(e)   advising on the practical application of these findings in
      the formulation of economic and social policies for
      population groups and regions, and for the development of
      markets;

(f)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Anthropologist
  Archaeologist
  Ethnologist
  Geographer
  Sociologist

2444  PHILOLOGISTS, TRANSLATORS AND INTERPRETERS 
     Philologists, translators and interpreters study the origin,
development  and structure of languages, and translate or
interpret from one language into  another.

     Tasks include -

(a)   studying relationships between ancient parent languages and
      modern language groups, tracing the origin and evolution
of
      words, grammar and language forms, and presenting findings;

(b)   advising on or preparing language classification systems,
      grammars, dictionaries and similar materials;

(c)   translating from one language into another and ensuring
      that the correct meaning of the original is retained, that
      legal, technical or scientific works are correctly
      rendered, and that the phraseology and terminology of the
      spirit and style of literary works are conveyed as far as
      possible;

(d)   develop methods for the use of computers and other
      instruments to improve productivity and quality of
      translations;

(e)   interpreting from one language into another, in particular
      at conferences, meetings and similar occasions, and
      ensuring that the correct meaning and, as far as possible,
      the spirit of the original are transmitted;

(f)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Interpreter
  Lexicographer
   Philologist
  Translator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Editor - 2451

3480  RELIGIOUS ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Religious associate professionals undertake religious works,
devote their  lives to contemplative prayer or meditation, and
preach and propagate the  teachings of their particular religion.     Tasks include -

(a)   undertaking religious works;

(b)   living as a member of a separate community, and observing
      its rules and practices;

(c)   devoting their lives to contemplative prayer or meditation;

(d)   preaching and propagating the teachings of a particular
      religious faith;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Monk, associate professional
  Nun, associate professional
  Preacher, lay
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Bonze - 2460	
  Imam - 2460
  Minister, religion - 2460
  Monk, professional - 2460
  Nun, professional - 2460
  Poojari - 2460
  Priest - 2460
  Rabbi- 2460

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

3152  SAFETY, HEALTH AND QUALITY INSPECTORS 
     Safety, health and quality inspectors, on behalf of the
government or  industrial and other enterprises, inspect places
of work on the grounds of  occupational safety, and safety of
production processes, or of goods produced,  used or sold, and
ensure compliance with health and environment protection  rules
and regulations, as well as with the quality standards and 
specifications of manufacturers.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising employers' and workers' representatives on the
      implementation of government and other rules and
      regulations concerning occupational safety and the working
      environment;

(b)   inspecting places of work to ensure that the working
      environment, machinery and equipment conform to government
      and other rules, regulations and standards;

(c)   inspecting places of work and, by interviews, observations
      and other means, obtaining facts about work practices and
      accidents to determine compliance with safety rules and
      regulations;

(d)   inspecting areas of production, processing, transport,
      handling, storage and sale of products to ensure conformity
      with government and other rules, regulations and standards;

(e)   inspecting finished products or parts for conformity with
      manufacturers' specifications and standards;

(f)   advising enterprises and the general public on the
      implementation of government and other rules and
      regulations concerning hygiene, sanitation, purity and
      grading of primary products, food, drugs, cosmetics and
      similar goods;

(g)   advising producers, operators and those maintaining and
      repairing aircraft, cars and other vehicles on the
      implementation of government and other rules and
      regulations concerning technical standards and conditions
      of vehicles;

(h)   inspecting vehicles and places authorised to maintain and
      repair vehicles to ensure that they conform to technical
      standards and government and other regulations;

(i)   inspecting establishments to ensure that they conform to
      government and other rules and regulations concerning
      emission of pollutants and disposal of dangerous wastes;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Inspector, occupational safety
  Inspector, quality/products
  Inspector, safety and health/consumer protection
  Inspector, safety and health/pollution

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Inspector, sanitary - 3222
  Inspector, wage - 3449

3439  ADMINISTRATIVE ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers administrative associate
professionals not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 343,
Administrative associate professionals.     For instance, here should be classified those who act as
administrative consular officials, undertake executive
secretarial duties for departmental  heads or official
committees, analyse files and other sources of information  and
write reports for responsible administrators, giving relevant
information  and some advice on policy questions, departmental
programmes, administrative  problems and other matters.     In such cases tasks would include:

(a)   acting as administrative consular official;

(b)   undertaking executive secretarial duties for departmental
      heads-
(c)   undertaking executive secretarial duties for official
      committees;

(d)   analysing files and other sources of information, and
      writing reports for responsible administrators;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Executive secretary, committee
  Executive secretary, government administration
  Official, consular

7414  FRUIT, VEGETABLE AND RELATED PRESERVERS
 

     Fruit, vegetable and related preservers process or preserve
fruit, nuts  and related foods in various ways including cooking,
drying, salting, or juice  or oil extraction.

     Tasks include -

(a)  extracting juices from various fruits;

(b)  extracting oils from oil-bearing seeds, nuts or fruits;

(c)  cooking, salting or drying fruit, vegetables and related
     foods;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Expeller, oil
  Preserver, fruit
  Preserver, vegetable
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, canning/fruit - 8275
  Machine-operator, canning/vegetables - 8275

7143  BUILDING STRUCTURE CLEANERS
 

     Building structure cleaners remove soot from chimneys, or
clean exterior  surfaces of buildings and other structures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  removing soot from flues, chimneys and connecting pipes;

(b)  cleaning exterior surfaces of stone, brick, metal or similar
     materials by means of chemicals, of a jet of steam or sand
     applied under great pressure;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Chimney sweep
  Cleaner, building exteriors
  Sandblaster, building exteriors

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

3242  FAITH HEALERS 
     Faith healers endeavour to cure human mental and physical
illness by  mental influence and suggestion, power of faith and
spiritual advice.

     Tasks include -

(a)   endeavouring to cure human mental and physical ailments by
      power of faith;

(b)   advising community and individuals on proper behaviour and
      faith to preserve or improve health and well-being;

(c)   performing related tasks;

(d)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Faith healer

3213  FARMING AND FORESTRY ADVISERS 
     Farming and forestry advisers provide technical assistance
and advice on  farming and forestry methods and problems.

     Tasks include -

(a)   keeping abreast of relevant farming or forestry methods and
      techniques;

(b)   advising on ways of raising quality of output, increasing
      yield and measures to increase efficiency of operations and
      to conserve natural assets and the environment;

(c)   advising on measures to deal with problems such as soil
      erosion or pest infestations;

(d)   collecting data and estimating quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects;

(e)   organising demonstrations, giving lectures and distributing
      material to promote adoption of improved practices and
      techniques;

(f)   applying knowledge of scientific principles and practices
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work

(g)   performing related tasks.

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 Adviser, farming
 Adviser, forestry
 Farm demonstrator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Technician, agronomy - 3212
 Technician, forestry - 3212

6121  DAIRY AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS
 
     Dairy and livestock producers plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed,  raise and tend livestock such
as cattle, sheep, pigs, goats,  horses, dogs or cats to be used
as working, sporting, or pet animals, as well  as for meat, milk,
hair, hides and other products, for sale or delivery on a 
regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of livestock and livestock
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing animals, producing and purchasing fodder and
     other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in grazing land, buildings, equipment
     and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending livestock;

(e)  milking animals and shearing sheep;

(f)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market;

(g)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(h)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(i)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, cat
  Breeder, dog
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock
  Farmer, dairy
  Farmer, horse raising
  Farmer, livestock
  Farmer, sheep
  Farmer, sheep/astrakhan
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6121  DAIRY AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS
 
     Dairy and livestock producers plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed,  raise and tend livestock such
as cattle, sheep, pigs, goats,  horses, dogs or cats to be used
as working, sporting, or pet animals, as well  as for meat, milk,
hair, hides and other products, for sale or delivery on a 
regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of livestock and livestock
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing animals, producing and purchasing fodder and
     other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in grazing land, buildings, equipment
     and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending livestock;

(e)  milking animals and shearing sheep;

(f)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market;

(g)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(h)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(i)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, cat
  Breeder, dog
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock
  Farmer, dairy
  Farmer, horse raising
  Farmer, livestock
  Farmer, sheep
  Farmer, sheep/astrakhan
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6151  AQUATIC-LIFE CULTIVATION WORKERS
 
     Aquatic-life cultivation workers breed and raise fish and
cultivate  mussels, oysters and other forms of aquatic life, for
sale or delivery on a  regular basis to wholesale buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(b)  purchasing food and other supplies;

(c)  breeding, raising and cultivating fish, mussels, oysters and
     other forms of aquatic life;

(d)  killing and preparing fish and other products for shipment;

(e)  cleaning, freezing, icing or salting catch on- or offshore;

(f)  maintaining buildings, machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Cultivator, algae
  Cultivator, pearl
  Farm worker, skilled/fish
  Farm worker, skilled/seafood on- or offshore;
  Farmer, fish
  Farmer, oyster
  Farmer, seafood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/fishing
        - 1221
  General manager, fishing - 1311
  Labourer, fishery - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/fishing - 1210

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6121  DAIRY AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS
 
     Dairy and livestock producers plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed,  raise and tend livestock such
as cattle, sheep, pigs, goats,  horses, dogs or cats to be used
as working, sporting, or pet animals, as well  as for meat, milk,
hair, hides and other products, for sale or delivery on a 
regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of livestock and livestock
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing animals, producing and purchasing fodder and
     other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in grazing land, buildings, equipment
     and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending livestock;

(e)  milking animals and shearing sheep;

(f)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market;

(g)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(h)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(i)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, cat
  Breeder, dog
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock
  Farmer, dairy
  Farmer, horse raising
  Farmer, livestock
  Farmer, sheep
  Farmer, sheep/astrakhan
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6114  MIXED-CROP GROWERS
 
     Mixed-crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations to grow  and harvest specific combinations of field
crops, field vegetables, tree and  shrub crops, and garden,
horticultural and nursery products, for sale or  delivery on a
regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at 
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes and cultivating and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  growing vegetables by intensive cultivation, and producing
     saplings, bulbs and seeds;

(f)  cultivating flowers, trees, shrubs and other plants for
     parks or public or private gardens;

(g)  growing plants for exhibition or medicinal purposes;


(h)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(i)  tending working animals and maintaining buildings, machinery
     and equipment;

(j)  delivering or marketing products;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/mixed crop
  Farmer, mixed crop
Some related occupations classified else where:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6130  MARKET-ORIENTED CROP AND ANIMAL PRODUCERS

 
     Market-oriented crop and animal producers plan and carry out
the  necessary operations to grow and harvest field, tree and
various other crops,  as well as to breed, raise and tend animals
and to produce a variety of animal  husbandry products, for sale
or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers, marketing
organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown and
     animals to be raised;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser, and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, machinery, livestock and other animals;

(d)  performing operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops;

(e)  producing or buying fodder and other food supplies;

(f)  breeding, raising and tending animals;

(g)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market;

(h)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce:

(i)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(j)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/mixed farming
  Farmer, mixed farming
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6124  MIXED-ANIMAL PRODUCERS
 
     Mixed-animal producers plan and carry out the necessary
operations to  breed, raise and tend different types of
livestock, such as cattle, sheep,  pigs, goats and horses, as
well as poultry, and to produce apiarian and  sericultural
products, for sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale 
buyers, marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  deciding on the specific combinations of mixed-animal
     husbandry;

(b)  determining kinds and amounts of livestock and livestock
     products, poultry and poultry products, and apiarian and
     sericultural products to be produced;

(c)  purchasing animals, producing and purchasing fodder, other
     kinds of food and supplies;

(d)  renting or investing in grazing land buildings, equipment
     and machinery;

(e)  breeding, raising and tending the particular combination of
     livestock, poultry and/or insects;

(f)  milking animals and shearing sheep;

(g)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market ;

(h)  collecting eggs, honey and other produce storing and
     carrying out some basic processing of their produce;

(i)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(j)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(k)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(l)  performing related tasks;

(m)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/mixed-animal husbandry
  Farmer, mixed-animal husbandry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6113  GARDENERS, HORTICULTURAL AND NURSERY GROWERS
 
     Gardeners, horticultural and nursery growers plan and carry
out the  necessary operations to grow vegetables by intensive
cultivation techniques,  to cultivate trees, shrubs, flowers and
other plants, and to produce saplings,  bulbs and seeds, for sale
or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers,  marketing
organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of vegetables, horticultural
     and nursery products to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, bulbs, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery-

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     growing vegetables by intensive cultivation, cultivating
     flowers, trees or bushes and harvesting crops;

(e)  producing saplings, bulbs and seeds;

(f)  cultivating flowers, trees, shrubs and other plants in parks
     or public or private gardens;

(g)  growing plants for exhibition or medicinal purposes;

(h)  delivering or marketing products;

(i)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(j)  tending working animals and maintaining buildings, machinery
     and equipment;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Cultivator, mushroom
  Farm worker, skilled/nursery
  Gardener
  Grower, horticultural nursery
  Horticultural grower
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6129  MARKET-ORIENTED ANIMAL PRODUCERS AND RELATED WORKERS NOT
ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED

 
     This unit group covers market-oriented animal producers and
related  workers not classified elsewhere in Minor group 612,
Market-oriented animal  producers and related workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  breeding, raising and tending wild mammals, game
birds and other birds,  snails, non-domesticated fur-giving
animals, snakes and other reptiles, as well  as various insects
and animals used for laboratory tests, for sale or delivery  on
a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations,
zoos and  circuses, or at markets. Here should also be classified
those who look after  or train animals in animal reserves,
stables, zoos, circuses, research  organisations, animal homes,
and similar institutions.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  buying or setting up necessary buildings, open or sheltered
     space, equipment, etc., and maintaining them;

(b)  determining kinds and amounts of animals to be raised;

(c)  purchasing animals, growing or purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(d)  breeding, raising, feeding and tending animals;

(e)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market

(f)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(g)  protecting animals, especially in animal reserves;

(h)  training animals for racing, circus performances and the
     like;

(i)  delivering or marketing products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, bird
  Breeder, game bird
  Breeder, laboratory animal/mice
  Breeder, lion
  Breeder, snail
  Farmer, fur/non-domesticated animals
  Keeper, animal reserve
  Keeper, zoo
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Game-warden - 5169

6113  GARDENERS, HORTICULTURAL AND NURSERY GROWERS
 
     Gardeners, horticultural and nursery growers plan and carry
out the  necessary operations to grow vegetables by intensive
cultivation techniques,  to cultivate trees, shrubs, flowers and
other plants, and to produce saplings,  bulbs and seeds, for sale
or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers,  marketing
organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of vegetables, horticultural
     and nursery products to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, bulbs, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery-

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     growing vegetables by intensive cultivation, cultivating
     flowers, trees or bushes and harvesting crops;

(e)  producing saplings, bulbs and seeds;

(f)  cultivating flowers, trees, shrubs and other plants in parks
     or public or private gardens;

(g)  growing plants for exhibition or medicinal purposes;

(h)  delivering or marketing products;

(i)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(j)  tending working animals and maintaining buildings, machinery
     and equipment;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Cultivator, mushroom
  Farm worker, skilled/nursery
  Gardener
  Grower, horticultural nursery
  Horticultural grower
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6129  MARKET-ORIENTED ANIMAL PRODUCERS AND RELATED WORKERS NOT
ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED

 
     This unit group covers market-oriented animal producers and
related  workers not classified elsewhere in Minor group 612,
Market-oriented animal  producers and related workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  breeding, raising and tending wild mammals, game
birds and other birds,  snails, non-domesticated fur-giving
animals, snakes and other reptiles, as well  as various insects
and animals used for laboratory tests, for sale or delivery  on
a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations,
zoos and  circuses, or at markets. Here should also be classified
those who look after  or train animals in animal reserves,
stables, zoos, circuses, research  organisations, animal homes,
and similar institutions.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  buying or setting up necessary buildings, open or sheltered
     space, equipment, etc., and maintaining them;

(b)  determining kinds and amounts of animals to be raised;

(c)  purchasing animals, growing or purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(d)  breeding, raising, feeding and tending animals;

(e)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market

(f)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(g)  protecting animals, especially in animal reserves;

(h)  training animals for racing, circus performances and the
     like;

(i)  delivering or marketing products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, bird
  Breeder, game bird
  Breeder, laboratory animal/mice
  Breeder, lion
  Breeder, snail
  Farmer, fur/non-domesticated animals
  Keeper, animal reserve
  Keeper, zoo
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Game-warden - 5169

6151  AQUATIC-LIFE CULTIVATION WORKERS
 
     Aquatic-life cultivation workers breed and raise fish and
cultivate  mussels, oysters and other forms of aquatic life, for
sale or delivery on a  regular basis to wholesale buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(b)  purchasing food and other supplies;

(c)  breeding, raising and cultivating fish, mussels, oysters and
     other forms of aquatic life;

(d)  killing and preparing fish and other products for shipment;

(e)  cleaning, freezing, icing or salting catch on- or offshore;

(f)  maintaining buildings, machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Cultivator, algae
  Cultivator, pearl
  Farm worker, skilled/fish
  Farm worker, skilled/seafood on- or offshore;
  Farmer, fish
  Farmer, oyster
  Farmer, seafood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/fishing
        - 1221
  General manager, fishing - 1311
  Labourer, fishery - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/fishing - 1210

6121  DAIRY AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS
 
     Dairy and livestock producers plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed,  raise and tend livestock such
as cattle, sheep, pigs, goats,  horses, dogs or cats to be used
as working, sporting, or pet animals, as well  as for meat, milk,
hair, hides and other products, for sale or delivery on a 
regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of livestock and livestock
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing animals, producing and purchasing fodder and
     other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in grazing land, buildings, equipment
     and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending livestock;

(e)  milking animals and shearing sheep;

(f)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market;

(g)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(h)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(i)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, cat
  Breeder, dog
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock
  Farmer, dairy
  Farmer, horse raising
  Farmer, livestock
  Farmer, sheep
  Farmer, sheep/astrakhan
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6122  POULTRY PRODUCERS
 
     Poultry producers plan and carry out the necessary
operations to breed,  raise and tend poultry for sale or delivery
of eggs, meat or feathers on a  regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at markets.

Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of poultry and poultry
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing chicks, growing and purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending poultry, and collecting eggs;

(e)  killing, dressing and packing poultry for shipment;

(f)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(g)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(h)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(i)  performing related tasks;

(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/poultry
  Farmer, poultry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6151  AQUATIC-LIFE CULTIVATION WORKERS
 
     Aquatic-life cultivation workers breed and raise fish and
cultivate  mussels, oysters and other forms of aquatic life, for
sale or delivery on a  regular basis to wholesale buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(b)  purchasing food and other supplies;

(c)  breeding, raising and cultivating fish, mussels, oysters and
     other forms of aquatic life;

(d)  killing and preparing fish and other products for shipment;

(e)  cleaning, freezing, icing or salting catch on- or offshore;

(f)  maintaining buildings, machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Cultivator, algae
  Cultivator, pearl
  Farm worker, skilled/fish
  Farm worker, skilled/seafood on- or offshore;
  Farmer, fish
  Farmer, oyster
  Farmer, seafood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/fishing
        - 1221
  General manager, fishing - 1311
  Labourer, fishery - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/fishing - 1210

6121  DAIRY AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS
 
     Dairy and livestock producers plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed,  raise and tend livestock such
as cattle, sheep, pigs, goats,  horses, dogs or cats to be used
as working, sporting, or pet animals, as well  as for meat, milk,
hair, hides and other products, for sale or delivery on a 
regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of livestock and livestock
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing animals, producing and purchasing fodder and
     other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in grazing land, buildings, equipment
     and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending livestock;

(e)  milking animals and shearing sheep;

(f)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market;

(g)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(h)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(i)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, cat
  Breeder, dog
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock
  Farmer, dairy
  Farmer, horse raising
  Farmer, livestock
  Farmer, sheep
  Farmer, sheep/astrakhan
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6210  SUBSISTENCE AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERY WORKERS
 
     Subsistence agricultural and fishery workers grow and
harvest field or  tree and shrub crops, grow vegetables and
fruit, gather wild fruits, medicinal  and other plants, tend or
hunt animals, catch fish and gather various forms of  aquatic
life in order to provide food, shelter and a minimum of cash
income  for themselves and their households.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing the soil, sowing, planting, tending and harvesting
     field crops;

(b)  growing vegetables, fruit and other tree and shrub crops;

(c)  gathering wild fruits, medicinal and other plants;

(d)  tending, feeding or hunting animals mainly to obtain meat,
     milk, hair, skin or other products;

(e)  fetching water and gathering firewood

(f)  catching fish and gathering other forms of aquatic life;

(g)  storing or carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(h)  building shelters and making simple tools, clothes and
     utensils for use by the household;

(i)  selling some products at local markets;

(j)  performing related tasks.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/subsistence farming
  Farmer, subsistence farming
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Labourer, farm - 9211
  Labourer, fishery - 9213

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6123  APIARISTS AND SERICULTURISTS
 
     Apiarists and sericulturists plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed, raise and tend insects such as
honey bees, silkworms or other  species, for sale or delivery of
honey, beeswax, silk cocoons, etc., on a  regular basis to
wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of insect products to be
     produced-,

(b)  purchasing insects, growing or purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending insects and collecting their
     products;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  maintaining buildings, machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Apiarist
  Apiary worker, skilled
  Sericulturist
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6122  POULTRY PRODUCERS
 
     Poultry producers plan and carry out the necessary
operations to breed,  raise and tend poultry for sale or delivery
of eggs, meat or feathers on a  regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at markets.

Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of poultry and poultry
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing chicks, growing and purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending poultry, and collecting eggs;

(e)  killing, dressing and packing poultry for shipment;

(f)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(g)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(h)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(i)  performing related tasks;

(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/poultry
  Farmer, poultry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6123  APIARISTS AND SERICULTURISTS
 
     Apiarists and sericulturists plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed, raise and tend insects such as
honey bees, silkworms or other  species, for sale or delivery of
honey, beeswax, silk cocoons, etc., on a  regular basis to
wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of insect products to be
     produced-,

(b)  purchasing insects, growing or purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending insects and collecting their
     products;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  maintaining buildings, machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Apiarist
  Apiary worker, skilled
  Sericulturist
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6121  DAIRY AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS
 
     Dairy and livestock producers plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed,  raise and tend livestock such
as cattle, sheep, pigs, goats,  horses, dogs or cats to be used
as working, sporting, or pet animals, as well  as for meat, milk,
hair, hides and other products, for sale or delivery on a 
regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of livestock and livestock
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing animals, producing and purchasing fodder and
     other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in grazing land, buildings, equipment
     and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending livestock;

(e)  milking animals and shearing sheep;

(f)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market;

(g)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(h)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(i)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, cat
  Breeder, dog
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock
  Farmer, dairy
  Farmer, horse raising
  Farmer, livestock
  Farmer, sheep
  Farmer, sheep/astrakhan
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6122  POULTRY PRODUCERS
 
     Poultry producers plan and carry out the necessary
operations to breed,  raise and tend poultry for sale or delivery
of eggs, meat or feathers on a  regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at markets.

Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of poultry and poultry
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing chicks, growing and purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending poultry, and collecting eggs;

(e)  killing, dressing and packing poultry for shipment;

(f)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(g)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(h)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(i)  performing related tasks;

(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/poultry
  Farmer, poultry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6121  DAIRY AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS
 
     Dairy and livestock producers plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed,  raise and tend livestock such
as cattle, sheep, pigs, goats,  horses, dogs or cats to be used
as working, sporting, or pet animals, as well  as for meat, milk,
hair, hides and other products, for sale or delivery on a 
regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of livestock and livestock
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing animals, producing and purchasing fodder and
     other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in grazing land, buildings, equipment
     and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending livestock;

(e)  milking animals and shearing sheep;

(f)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market;

(g)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(h)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(i)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, cat
  Breeder, dog
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock
  Farmer, dairy
  Farmer, horse raising
  Farmer, livestock
  Farmer, sheep
  Farmer, sheep/astrakhan
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6122  POULTRY PRODUCERS
 
     Poultry producers plan and carry out the necessary
operations to breed,  raise and tend poultry for sale or delivery
of eggs, meat or feathers on a  regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at markets.

Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of poultry and poultry
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing chicks, growing and purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending poultry, and collecting eggs;

(e)  killing, dressing and packing poultry for shipment;

(f)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(g)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(h)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(i)  performing related tasks;

(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/poultry
  Farmer, poultry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6151  AQUATIC-LIFE CULTIVATION WORKERS
 
     Aquatic-life cultivation workers breed and raise fish and
cultivate  mussels, oysters and other forms of aquatic life, for
sale or delivery on a  regular basis to wholesale buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(b)  purchasing food and other supplies;

(c)  breeding, raising and cultivating fish, mussels, oysters and
     other forms of aquatic life;

(d)  killing and preparing fish and other products for shipment;

(e)  cleaning, freezing, icing or salting catch on- or offshore;

(f)  maintaining buildings, machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Cultivator, algae
  Cultivator, pearl
  Farm worker, skilled/fish
  Farm worker, skilled/seafood on- or offshore;
  Farmer, fish
  Farmer, oyster
  Farmer, seafood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/fishing
        - 1221
  General manager, fishing - 1311
  Labourer, fishery - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/fishing - 1210

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6121  DAIRY AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS
 
     Dairy and livestock producers plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed,  raise and tend livestock such
as cattle, sheep, pigs, goats,  horses, dogs or cats to be used
as working, sporting, or pet animals, as well  as for meat, milk,
hair, hides and other products, for sale or delivery on a 
regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of livestock and livestock
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing animals, producing and purchasing fodder and
     other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in grazing land, buildings, equipment
     and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending livestock;

(e)  milking animals and shearing sheep;

(f)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market;

(g)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(h)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(i)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, cat
  Breeder, dog
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock
  Farmer, dairy
  Farmer, horse raising
  Farmer, livestock
  Farmer, sheep
  Farmer, sheep/astrakhan
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6129  MARKET-ORIENTED ANIMAL PRODUCERS AND RELATED WORKERS NOT
ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED

 
     This unit group covers market-oriented animal producers and
related  workers not classified elsewhere in Minor group 612,
Market-oriented animal  producers and related workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  breeding, raising and tending wild mammals, game
birds and other birds,  snails, non-domesticated fur-giving
animals, snakes and other reptiles, as well  as various insects
and animals used for laboratory tests, for sale or delivery  on
a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations,
zoos and  circuses, or at markets. Here should also be classified
those who look after  or train animals in animal reserves,
stables, zoos, circuses, research  organisations, animal homes,
and similar institutions.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  buying or setting up necessary buildings, open or sheltered
     space, equipment, etc., and maintaining them;

(b)  determining kinds and amounts of animals to be raised;

(c)  purchasing animals, growing or purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(d)  breeding, raising, feeding and tending animals;

(e)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market

(f)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(g)  protecting animals, especially in animal reserves;

(h)  training animals for racing, circus performances and the
     like;

(i)  delivering or marketing products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, bird
  Breeder, game bird
  Breeder, laboratory animal/mice
  Breeder, lion
  Breeder, snail
  Farmer, fur/non-domesticated animals
  Keeper, animal reserve
  Keeper, zoo
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Game-warden - 5169

6122  POULTRY PRODUCERS
 
     Poultry producers plan and carry out the necessary
operations to breed,  raise and tend poultry for sale or delivery
of eggs, meat or feathers on a  regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at markets.

Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of poultry and poultry
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing chicks, growing and purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending poultry, and collecting eggs;

(e)  killing, dressing and packing poultry for shipment;

(f)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(g)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(h)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(i)  performing related tasks;

(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/poultry
  Farmer, poultry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6121  DAIRY AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS
 
     Dairy and livestock producers plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed,  raise and tend livestock such
as cattle, sheep, pigs, goats,  horses, dogs or cats to be used
as working, sporting, or pet animals, as well  as for meat, milk,
hair, hides and other products, for sale or delivery on a 
regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of livestock and livestock
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing animals, producing and purchasing fodder and
     other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in grazing land, buildings, equipment
     and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending livestock;

(e)  milking animals and shearing sheep;

(f)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market;

(g)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(h)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(i)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, cat
  Breeder, dog
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock
  Farmer, dairy
  Farmer, horse raising
  Farmer, livestock
  Farmer, sheep
  Farmer, sheep/astrakhan
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6121  DAIRY AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS
 
     Dairy and livestock producers plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed,  raise and tend livestock such
as cattle, sheep, pigs, goats,  horses, dogs or cats to be used
as working, sporting, or pet animals, as well  as for meat, milk,
hair, hides and other products, for sale or delivery on a 
regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of livestock and livestock
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing animals, producing and purchasing fodder and
     other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in grazing land, buildings, equipment
     and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending livestock;

(e)  milking animals and shearing sheep;

(f)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market;

(g)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(h)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(i)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, cat
  Breeder, dog
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock
  Farmer, dairy
  Farmer, horse raising
  Farmer, livestock
  Farmer, sheep
  Farmer, sheep/astrakhan
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6121  DAIRY AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS
 
     Dairy and livestock producers plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed,  raise and tend livestock such
as cattle, sheep, pigs, goats,  horses, dogs or cats to be used
as working, sporting, or pet animals, as well  as for meat, milk,
hair, hides and other products, for sale or delivery on a 
regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of livestock and livestock
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing animals, producing and purchasing fodder and
     other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in grazing land, buildings, equipment
     and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending livestock;

(e)  milking animals and shearing sheep;

(f)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market;

(g)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(h)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(i)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, cat
  Breeder, dog
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock
  Farmer, dairy
  Farmer, horse raising
  Farmer, livestock
  Farmer, sheep
  Farmer, sheep/astrakhan
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6114  MIXED-CROP GROWERS
 
     Mixed-crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations to grow  and harvest specific combinations of field
crops, field vegetables, tree and  shrub crops, and garden,
horticultural and nursery products, for sale or  delivery on a
regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at 
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes and cultivating and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  growing vegetables by intensive cultivation, and producing
     saplings, bulbs and seeds;

(f)  cultivating flowers, trees, shrubs and other plants for
     parks or public or private gardens;

(g)  growing plants for exhibition or medicinal purposes;


(h)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(i)  tending working animals and maintaining buildings, machinery
     and equipment;

(j)  delivering or marketing products;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/mixed crop
  Farmer, mixed crop
Some related occupations classified else where:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6130  MARKET-ORIENTED CROP AND ANIMAL PRODUCERS

 
     Market-oriented crop and animal producers plan and carry out
the  necessary operations to grow and harvest field, tree and
various other crops,  as well as to breed, raise and tend animals
and to produce a variety of animal  husbandry products, for sale
or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers, marketing
organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown and
     animals to be raised;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser, and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, machinery, livestock and other animals;

(d)  performing operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops;

(e)  producing or buying fodder and other food supplies;

(f)  breeding, raising and tending animals;

(g)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market;

(h)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce:

(i)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(j)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/mixed farming
  Farmer, mixed farming
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6124  MIXED-ANIMAL PRODUCERS
 
     Mixed-animal producers plan and carry out the necessary
operations to  breed, raise and tend different types of
livestock, such as cattle, sheep,  pigs, goats and horses, as
well as poultry, and to produce apiarian and  sericultural
products, for sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale 
buyers, marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  deciding on the specific combinations of mixed-animal
     husbandry;

(b)  determining kinds and amounts of livestock and livestock
     products, poultry and poultry products, and apiarian and
     sericultural products to be produced;

(c)  purchasing animals, producing and purchasing fodder, other
     kinds of food and supplies;

(d)  renting or investing in grazing land buildings, equipment
     and machinery;

(e)  breeding, raising and tending the particular combination of
     livestock, poultry and/or insects;

(f)  milking animals and shearing sheep;

(g)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market ;

(h)  collecting eggs, honey and other produce storing and
     carrying out some basic processing of their produce;

(i)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(j)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(k)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(l)  performing related tasks;

(m)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/mixed-animal husbandry
  Farmer, mixed-animal husbandry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6151  AQUATIC-LIFE CULTIVATION WORKERS
 
     Aquatic-life cultivation workers breed and raise fish and
cultivate  mussels, oysters and other forms of aquatic life, for
sale or delivery on a  regular basis to wholesale buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(b)  purchasing food and other supplies;

(c)  breeding, raising and cultivating fish, mussels, oysters and
     other forms of aquatic life;

(d)  killing and preparing fish and other products for shipment;

(e)  cleaning, freezing, icing or salting catch on- or offshore;

(f)  maintaining buildings, machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Cultivator, algae
  Cultivator, pearl
  Farm worker, skilled/fish
  Farm worker, skilled/seafood on- or offshore;
  Farmer, fish
  Farmer, oyster
  Farmer, seafood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/fishing
        - 1221
  General manager, fishing - 1311
  Labourer, fishery - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/fishing - 1210

6121  DAIRY AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS
 
     Dairy and livestock producers plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed,  raise and tend livestock such
as cattle, sheep, pigs, goats,  horses, dogs or cats to be used
as working, sporting, or pet animals, as well  as for meat, milk,
hair, hides and other products, for sale or delivery on a 
regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of livestock and livestock
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing animals, producing and purchasing fodder and
     other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in grazing land, buildings, equipment
     and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending livestock;

(e)  milking animals and shearing sheep;

(f)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market;

(g)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(h)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(i)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, cat
  Breeder, dog
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock
  Farmer, dairy
  Farmer, horse raising
  Farmer, livestock
  Farmer, sheep
  Farmer, sheep/astrakhan
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6122  POULTRY PRODUCERS
 
     Poultry producers plan and carry out the necessary
operations to breed,  raise and tend poultry for sale or delivery
of eggs, meat or feathers on a  regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at markets.

Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of poultry and poultry
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing chicks, growing and purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending poultry, and collecting eggs;

(e)  killing, dressing and packing poultry for shipment;

(f)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(g)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(h)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(i)  performing related tasks;

(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/poultry
  Farmer, poultry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6121  DAIRY AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS
 
     Dairy and livestock producers plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed,  raise and tend livestock such
as cattle, sheep, pigs, goats,  horses, dogs or cats to be used
as working, sporting, or pet animals, as well  as for meat, milk,
hair, hides and other products, for sale or delivery on a 
regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of livestock and livestock
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing animals, producing and purchasing fodder and
     other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in grazing land, buildings, equipment
     and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending livestock;

(e)  milking animals and shearing sheep;

(f)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market;

(g)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(h)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(i)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, cat
  Breeder, dog
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock
  Farmer, dairy
  Farmer, horse raising
  Farmer, livestock
  Farmer, sheep
  Farmer, sheep/astrakhan
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6151  AQUATIC-LIFE CULTIVATION WORKERS
 
     Aquatic-life cultivation workers breed and raise fish and
cultivate  mussels, oysters and other forms of aquatic life, for
sale or delivery on a  regular basis to wholesale buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(b)  purchasing food and other supplies;

(c)  breeding, raising and cultivating fish, mussels, oysters and
     other forms of aquatic life;

(d)  killing and preparing fish and other products for shipment;

(e)  cleaning, freezing, icing or salting catch on- or offshore;

(f)  maintaining buildings, machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Cultivator, algae
  Cultivator, pearl
  Farm worker, skilled/fish
  Farm worker, skilled/seafood on- or offshore;
  Farmer, fish
  Farmer, oyster
  Farmer, seafood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/fishing
        - 1221
  General manager, fishing - 1311
  Labourer, fishery - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/fishing - 1210

6123  APIARISTS AND SERICULTURISTS
 
     Apiarists and sericulturists plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed, raise and tend insects such as
honey bees, silkworms or other  species, for sale or delivery of
honey, beeswax, silk cocoons, etc., on a  regular basis to
wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of insect products to be
     produced-,

(b)  purchasing insects, growing or purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending insects and collecting their
     products;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  maintaining buildings, machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Apiarist
  Apiary worker, skilled
  Sericulturist
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6121  DAIRY AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS
 
     Dairy and livestock producers plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed,  raise and tend livestock such
as cattle, sheep, pigs, goats,  horses, dogs or cats to be used
as working, sporting, or pet animals, as well  as for meat, milk,
hair, hides and other products, for sale or delivery on a 
regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of livestock and livestock
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing animals, producing and purchasing fodder and
     other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in grazing land, buildings, equipment
     and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending livestock;

(e)  milking animals and shearing sheep;

(f)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market;

(g)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(h)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(i)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, cat
  Breeder, dog
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock
  Farmer, dairy
  Farmer, horse raising
  Farmer, livestock
  Farmer, sheep
  Farmer, sheep/astrakhan
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6123  APIARISTS AND SERICULTURISTS
 
     Apiarists and sericulturists plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed, raise and tend insects such as
honey bees, silkworms or other  species, for sale or delivery of
honey, beeswax, silk cocoons, etc., on a  regular basis to
wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of insect products to be
     produced-,

(b)  purchasing insects, growing or purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending insects and collecting their
     products;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  maintaining buildings, machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Apiarist
  Apiary worker, skilled
  Sericulturist
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6121  DAIRY AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS
 
     Dairy and livestock producers plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed,  raise and tend livestock such
as cattle, sheep, pigs, goats,  horses, dogs or cats to be used
as working, sporting, or pet animals, as well  as for meat, milk,
hair, hides and other products, for sale or delivery on a 
regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of livestock and livestock
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing animals, producing and purchasing fodder and
     other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in grazing land, buildings, equipment
     and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending livestock;

(e)  milking animals and shearing sheep;

(f)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market;

(g)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(h)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(i)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, cat
  Breeder, dog
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock
  Farmer, dairy
  Farmer, horse raising
  Farmer, livestock
  Farmer, sheep
  Farmer, sheep/astrakhan
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6210  SUBSISTENCE AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERY WORKERS
 
     Subsistence agricultural and fishery workers grow and
harvest field or  tree and shrub crops, grow vegetables and
fruit, gather wild fruits, medicinal  and other plants, tend or
hunt animals, catch fish and gather various forms of  aquatic
life in order to provide food, shelter and a minimum of cash
income  for themselves and their households.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing the soil, sowing, planting, tending and harvesting
     field crops;

(b)  growing vegetables, fruit and other tree and shrub crops;

(c)  gathering wild fruits, medicinal and other plants;

(d)  tending, feeding or hunting animals mainly to obtain meat,
     milk, hair, skin or other products;

(e)  fetching water and gathering firewood

(f)  catching fish and gathering other forms of aquatic life;

(g)  storing or carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(h)  building shelters and making simple tools, clothes and
     utensils for use by the household;

(i)  selling some products at local markets;

(j)  performing related tasks.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/subsistence farming
  Farmer, subsistence farming
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Labourer, farm - 9211
  Labourer, fishery - 9213

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6122  POULTRY PRODUCERS
 
     Poultry producers plan and carry out the necessary
operations to breed,  raise and tend poultry for sale or delivery
of eggs, meat or feathers on a  regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at markets.

Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of poultry and poultry
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing chicks, growing and purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending poultry, and collecting eggs;

(e)  killing, dressing and packing poultry for shipment;

(f)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(g)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(h)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(i)  performing related tasks;

(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/poultry
  Farmer, poultry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

7221  BLACKSMITHS, HAMMER-SMITHS AND FORGING-PRESS WORKERS
 

     Blacksmiths, hammer-smiths and forging-press workers draw
wire, hammer  and forge bars, rods, ingots and plates of iron,
steel or other metals to make  and repair various kinds of tools,
metal articles, pieces of equipment,  agricultural and related
implements.

     Tasks include -

(a)  heating metal in forge furnace and manufacturing and
     repairing articles by drawing, bending, cutting, hammering
     metal on an anvil, punching, shearing, joining and hardening
     or tempering;

(b)  shaping heated metal into forgings on power hammer equipped
     with open dies;

(c)  operating closed-die drop hammer to forge metal articles;

(d)  operating a power-press machine equipped with closed dies
to
     forge metal articles;

(e)  drawing wire;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blacksmith
  Drop-hammer worker
  Forging-press worker
  Hammer-smith
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, casting/metal - 8122
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

6141  FORESTRY WORKERS AND LOGGERS
 
     Forestry workers and loggers carry out the necessary
operations to  cultivate, conserve and exploit forests, for sale
or delivery of forestry  products on a regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a) establishing and caring for forest stands;

(b)  locating trees to be felled and estimating volume of timber;

(c)  trimming, topping and felling trees and sawing them into
     logs;

(d)  shaping rough wooden products from logs at felling site;

(e)  stacking logs, loading them in chutes or floating them down
     rivers;

(f)  keeping watch to detect forest fires and participating in
     firefighting operations;

(g)  delivering or marketing forestry products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Climber, logging
  Cruiser, timber
  Feller-bucker, tree
  Forestry worker, skilled
  Logger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/forestry
        - 1221
  General manager, forestry - 1311
  Labourer, forestry - 9212
  Managing director, enterprise/forestry - 1210
  Operator, forestry machinery - 8331

7441  PELT DRESSERS, TANNERS AND FELLMONGERS
 

     Pelt dressers, tanners and fellmongers prepare fur- and
wool-bearing  pelts for making garments and other products, and
make leather from hides and  skins.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sorting and grading pelts, hides and skins;

(b)  removing flesh and fat from pelts before curing;

(c)  removing flesh and hair from hides;

(d)  removing long, coarse hair from pelts and trimming
     underlying hair to even length;

(e)  operating machine to split hides edgeways;

(f)  treating hides to convert them into leather;

(g)  applying dyes to fur pelts;

(h)  dressing and applying dyes and stains to leather;

(i)  stretching and smoothing dressed pelts;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fellmonger
  Grader, pelt
  Tanner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, tanning - 8265

8223  METAL FINISHING-, PLATING AND COATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Metal finishing-, plating- and coating-machine operators
operate and  monitor equipment which finishes, plates and coats
metal articles or parts, in  order to give them improved
resistance to corrosion and abrasion, for  decorative purposes,
or to impart electrical or magnetic properties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which cleans metal
     articles in preparation for electroplating, galvanising,
     enamelling or similar processes;

(b)  operating and monitoring electroplating equipment;

(c)  operating and monitoring hot-dip equipment used to coat iron
     and steel products

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which automatically coat
     wire with non ferrous metal

(e)  operating and monitoring equipment used to spray molten
     metal or other substances on metal products to provide a
     protective or decorative coating or to build up worn or
     damaged surfaces;

(f)  operating and monitoring equipment used to impart a rust-
     resistant finish to metal articles by treating them with
     chemicals and heating them;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, coating/metal
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal
  Machine-operator, plating/metal

7431  FIBRE PREPARERS
 

     Fibre preparers prepare wool, cotton,flax, jute, hemp and
other natural  textile fibres for spinning and winding.

     Tasks include -

(a)  grading and classifying natural textile fibres;

(b)  washing wool fibres;

(c)  cleaning and fluffing textile fibres;

(d)  forming fibres into sliver, combing them, combining sliver
     into sliver laps or forming sliver into rove;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Comber, fibre/textiles
  Drawer, fibre/textiles
  Rover, fibre/textiles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator combing/textile fibres - 8261

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

8153  CHEMICAL-FILTERING- AND SEPARATING-EQUIPMENT OPERATORS
 

     Chemical-filtering- and separating-equipment operators
operate and  monitor machines and equipment which filter and
separate chemicals and related  materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment in which solutions are
     forced, under pressure, through a filtering unit;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment in which solutions are
     vacuum-drawn through filtering media fitted to a rotating
     drum;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which separate substances
     by centrifugal force;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment which removes sediment
     and water from crude oil;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, separator/chemical and related processes
  Operator, treating equipment/crude oil
  Filter-press operator, chemical and related materials

7345  BOOKBINDERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Bookbinders and related workers bind covers to books and
perform  book-finishing operations.

     Tasks include -

(a)  binding books and periodicals by hand;

(b)  setting and operating bookbinding machines;

(c)  embossing designs or titles on books by hand or machine;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Bookbinder
  Embosser, book
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, bookbinding 8252

7224  METAL WHEEL-GRINDERS, POLISHERS AND TOOL SHARPENERS
 

     Metal wheel-grinders, polishers and tool sharpeners grind
and polish  metal surfaces and sharpen tools.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating fixed or portable buffing and polishing machines;

(b)  sharpening cutting tools and instruments using grinding
     wheel or mechanically operated grinding machines;

(c)  repairing, adjusting and sharpening saw blades and metal
     teeth of cylinders in textile carding machines;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Finisher, metal
  Grinder, tool
  Polisher, metal
  Sharpener, knife
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal - 8223
  Machine-operator polishing/metal -8223

7123  CONCRETE PLACERS, CONCRETE FINISHERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Concrete placers, concrete finishers and related workers
erect reinforced  concrete frameworks and structures, make forms
for moulding concrete,  reinforce concrete surfaces, cement
openings in walls or casings for wells,  finish and repair cement
surfaces and carry out terrazzo work.
     
     Tasks include -

(a)  constructing and repairing reinforced concrete floors,
     walls, tanks, silos and other concrete structures;

(b)  making shuttering or assembling prefabricated forms for
     moulding concrete;

(c)  cementing openings in walls or casings for wells;

(d)  finishing and smoothing surfaces of concrete structures;

(e)  applying a durable, smooth surfacing composed of cement,
     sand pigment and marble particles to floors, known as a
     terrazzo finish;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Finisher, cement
  Placer, concrete
  Terrazzo worker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, finishing/concrete 8212
  Operator, road surface laying machinery - 8332

7222  TOOL-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Tool-makers and related workers make and repair tools,
sports guns,  locks, dies, patterns and other metal articles, as
well as make engines or  machinery components, and parts thereof,
using hand and machine tools to work  metal to fine tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, maintaining and repairing dies, jigs, gauges and
     fixtures, using hand tools and various kinds of machine
     tools;

(b)  making engines or machinery components, and parts thereof;

(c)  fitting and assembling parts to make and repair jigs,
     fixtures and gauges;

(d)  repairing and modifying sports guns and other small arms;

(e)  making, fitting, assembling, repairing and installing lock
     parts and locks;

(f)  making and repairing metal patterns for preparation of
     foundry moulds;

(g)  laying out lines and reference points on metal stock to
     guide other workers who cut, turn, mill, grind or otherwise
     shape metal;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Gunsmith
  Locksmith
  Toolmaker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator tool production - 8211

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

7322  GLASS-MAKERS, CUTTERS, GRINDERS AND FINISHERS
 

     Glass-makers, cutters, grinders and finishers blow, mould,
press and roll  shapes from molten glass and cut, grind and
polish glass.

     Tasks include -

(a)  shaping molten glass by means of blowpipe, hand moulding,
     heating and bending;

(b)  heating, moulding and pressing optical glass to make lens
     blanks;

(c)  grinding and polishing lens blanks;

(d)  grinding and bevelling edges of glass;

(e)  cutting sheet glass with hand tools and sawing prisms and
     other shapes from optical glass blocks;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blower, glass
  Cutter, glass
  Finisher, glass
  Grinder, glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Furnace-operator, glass production - 8131

7224  METAL WHEEL-GRINDERS, POLISHERS AND TOOL SHARPENERS
 

     Metal wheel-grinders, polishers and tool sharpeners grind
and polish  metal surfaces and sharpen tools.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating fixed or portable buffing and polishing machines;

(b)  sharpening cutting tools and instruments using grinding
     wheel or mechanically operated grinding machines;

(c)  repairing, adjusting and sharpening saw blades and metal
     teeth of cylinders in textile carding machines;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Finisher, metal
  Grinder, tool
  Polisher, metal
  Sharpener, knife
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal - 8223
  Machine-operator polishing/metal -8223

7441  PELT DRESSERS, TANNERS AND FELLMONGERS
 

     Pelt dressers, tanners and fellmongers prepare fur- and
wool-bearing  pelts for making garments and other products, and
make leather from hides and  skins.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sorting and grading pelts, hides and skins;

(b)  removing flesh and fat from pelts before curing;

(c)  removing flesh and hair from hides;

(d)  removing long, coarse hair from pelts and trimming
     underlying hair to even length;

(e)  operating machine to split hides edgeways;

(f)  treating hides to convert them into leather;

(g)  applying dyes to fur pelts;

(h)  dressing and applying dyes and stains to leather;

(i)  stretching and smoothing dressed pelts;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fellmonger
  Grader, pelt
  Tanner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, tanning - 8265

7343  PRINTING ENGRAVERS AND ETCHERS
 

     Printing engravers and etchers engrave lithographic stones
and printing  plates, rollers, dies and blocks by various
processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting designs through film applied to surface of
     lithographic stones;

(b)  engraving steel and copper plates, rollers, dies or wood,
     rubber and linoleum blocks by hand;

(c)  engraving metal plates and rollers by machine;

(d)  transferring designs from lithographic stone to metal
     plates;

(e)  performing all or several tasks in preparing printing plates
     by photogravure process;

(f)  etching metal plates or rollers with acid and retouching;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Engraver, printing/lithographic stone
  Engraver, printing/metal plate
  Etcher, printing/metal plate
  Photo-engraver
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Designer, graphic - 3471

7113  STONE SPLITTERS, CUTTERS AND CARVERS
 



     Stone splitters, cutters and carvers break quarried stone
slabs or  blocks, or by using hand or hand-powered tools cut,
shape and finish stone for  building, ornamental, monumental and
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving wedges into quarried stone to break it into slabs
     or blocks;

(b)  selecting and grading slabs and blocks of granite, marble,
     and other stone;

(c)  cutting, shaping and finishing building and monumental stone
     such as granite or marble by using hand or hand-powered
     tools;

(d)  making patterns and marking shapes on stone for subsequent
     sawing, planing, drilling and other dressing and cutting
     operations;

(e)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     blocks used for monuments or memorials;

(f)  setting stone in the erection of monuments and memorials;

(g)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     used for decorative facings on buildings-

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carver, stone
  Cutter, stone
  Mason, monument
  Splitter, stone
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, carving/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, cutting/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, splitting/stone 8112
  Sculptor - 2452
  Stonemason, construction - 7122

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

3151  BUILDING AND FIRE INSPECTORS 
     Building and fire inspectors, on behalf of the government
or industrial  and other enterprises, inspect new and existing
houses, industrial plant,  hotels and other buildings and
structures to ensure compliance with building,  grading and
zoning laws and with approved plans, specifications and
standards,  or inspect fire-prevention systems and investigate
fire sites to determine  cause of fire.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising those erecting buildings and other structures on
      the implementation of building, grading and zoning laws,
      as well as other rules concerning quality and safety of
      buildings;

(b)   inspecting buildings and structures during and after
      construction to ensure that they comply with building,
      grading, zoning and safety laws and approved plans,
      specifications and standards, as well as with other rules
      concerning quality and safety of buildings;

(c)   inspecting existing buildings and structures to determine
      whether lack of proper maintenance, housing violations or
      hazardous conditions exist;

(d)   inspecting industrial plant, hotels, cinemas and other
      buildings and structures to detect fire hazards and advise
      on how they can be removed;

(e)   advising on the installation of fire detectors and
      sprinkler systems and the use of materials in the
      construction of buildings and means of transportation to
      reduce risk of fire and extent of damage and danger if fire
      occurs:

(f)   investigating fire sites to determine cause of fire;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Inspector, building
  Inspector, fire
  Specialist, fire prevention

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Fire-fighter - 5161

5161  FIRE-FIGHTERS
 
     Fire-fighters prevent, fight and try to extinguish fires,
rescue persons and salvage property and goods during and after
fires and major accidents.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preventing, fighting and extinguishing fires;

(b)  fighting special types of fires and using special equipment
     in industrial establishments;

(c)  preventing and extinguishing fires in crashed or damaged
     aircraft and rescuing crew and passengers;

(d)  rescuing persons and salvaging property and goods during and
     after fires and major accidents;

(e)  preventing or limiting the spread of dangerous substances
in
     case of fires or accidents;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Fire-fighter
  Fire-fighter, aircraft accidents
  Fire-fighter, forest
  Salvage man, fire
  Salvage woman, fire
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Inspector, fire - 3151
  Investigator, fire - 3151
  Specialist, fire prevention - 31 51

7122  BRICKLAYERS AND STONEMASONS
 

     Bricklayers and stonemasons erect and repair foundations,
walls and  structures of brick, stone and similar materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  laying stone, brick, hollow tile and similar building blocks
     to construct or repair walls, partitions, fireplaces and
     other structures such as smokestacks, furnaces, converters,
     kilns and ovens, piers and abutments;

(b)  laying walks, curbs and pavements of stone;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Bricklayer, construction
  Stonemason, construction

8162  STEAM-ENGINE AND BOILER OPERATORS
 

     Steam-engine and boiler operators operate and monitor steam-
engines and  boilers on land and at sea.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring coal- or oil fired steam-engines
     or boilers on land and at sea;

(b)  performing' related tasks

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, boiler/ship
  Operator, steam engine

6152  INLAND AND COASTAL WATERS FISHERY WORKERS
 
     Inland and coastal waters fishery workers, alone or as
members of  fishing-vessel crews, catch fish or gather other
forms of aquatic life in  inland or coastal waters, for sale or
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers, marketing
organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing and repairing nets and other fishing gear and
     equipment;

(b)  operating fishing vessels to, from and at fishing grounds;

(c)  baiting, setting and hauling in fishing gear;

(d)  gathering different forms of aquatic life from shores and
     shallow waters;

(e)  cleaning, freezing, icing or salting catch

(f)  delivering or marketing products;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Diver, oyster
  Diver, sponge
  Fisherman, coastal waters
  Fisherwoman, inland waters
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/fishing
        - 1221
  General manager, fishing - 1311
  Labourer, fishery - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/fishing - 1210

6153  DEEP-SEA FISHERY WORKERS
 
     Deep-sea fishery workers, as members of fishing vessel
crews, catch  deep-sea fish, for sale or delivery on a regular
basis to wholesale buyers,  marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing and repairing nets and other fishing gear and
     equipment;

(b)  operating fishing vessels to, from and at fishing grounds;

(c)  baiting, setting and hauling in fishing gear;

(d)  cleaning, freezing, icing or salting catch on- or offshore;

(e)  delivering or marketing catch;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Fisherman, deep-sea
  Fisherwoman, deep-sea
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/fishing
        - 1221
  General manager, fishing - 1311
  Labourer, fishery - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/fishing - 1210

6152  INLAND AND COASTAL WATERS FISHERY WORKERS
 
     Inland and coastal waters fishery workers, alone or as
members of  fishing-vessel crews, catch fish or gather other
forms of aquatic life in  inland or coastal waters, for sale or
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers, marketing
organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing and repairing nets and other fishing gear and
     equipment;

(b)  operating fishing vessels to, from and at fishing grounds;

(c)  baiting, setting and hauling in fishing gear;

(d)  gathering different forms of aquatic life from shores and
     shallow waters;

(e)  cleaning, freezing, icing or salting catch

(f)  delivering or marketing products;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Diver, oyster
  Diver, sponge
  Fisherman, coastal waters
  Fisherwoman, inland waters
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/fishing
        - 1221
  General manager, fishing - 1311
  Labourer, fishery - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/fishing - 1210

6154  HUNTERS AND TRAPPERS
 
     Hunters and trappers catch and kill mammals, birds or
reptiles mainly for  meat, skin, feathers and other products, for
sale or delivery on a regular  basis to wholesale buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting traps to catch mammals, birds or reptiles;

(b)  killing trapped or free mammals, birds or reptiles with
     firearms or other weapons;

(c)  skinning and otherwise treating killed mammals, birds or
     reptiles to obtain desired products for sale or delivery.

(d)  delivering or selling trapped live mammals, birds or
     reptiles-,

(e)  repairing and maintaining equipment.

(f)  performing related tasks-,

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Hunter, seal
  Hunter, whale
  Trapper, fur
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/hunting
        - 1221
  General manager, hunting - 1311
  Labourer, hunting - 9213
  Labourer, trapping - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/hunting - 1210

6152  INLAND AND COASTAL WATERS FISHERY WORKERS
 
     Inland and coastal waters fishery workers, alone or as
members of  fishing-vessel crews, catch fish or gather other
forms of aquatic life in  inland or coastal waters, for sale or
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers, marketing
organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing and repairing nets and other fishing gear and
     equipment;

(b)  operating fishing vessels to, from and at fishing grounds;

(c)  baiting, setting and hauling in fishing gear;

(d)  gathering different forms of aquatic life from shores and
     shallow waters;

(e)  cleaning, freezing, icing or salting catch

(f)  delivering or marketing products;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Diver, oyster
  Diver, sponge
  Fisherman, coastal waters
  Fisherwoman, inland waters
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/fishing
        - 1221
  General manager, fishing - 1311
  Labourer, fishery - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/fishing - 1210

6153  DEEP-SEA FISHERY WORKERS
 
     Deep-sea fishery workers, as members of fishing vessel
crews, catch  deep-sea fish, for sale or delivery on a regular
basis to wholesale buyers,  marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing and repairing nets and other fishing gear and
     equipment;

(b)  operating fishing vessels to, from and at fishing grounds;

(c)  baiting, setting and hauling in fishing gear;

(d)  cleaning, freezing, icing or salting catch on- or offshore;

(e)  delivering or marketing catch;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Fisherman, deep-sea
  Fisherwoman, deep-sea
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/fishing
        - 1221
  General manager, fishing - 1311
  Labourer, fishery - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/fishing - 1210

6152  INLAND AND COASTAL WATERS FISHERY WORKERS
 
     Inland and coastal waters fishery workers, alone or as
members of  fishing-vessel crews, catch fish or gather other
forms of aquatic life in  inland or coastal waters, for sale or
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers, marketing
organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing and repairing nets and other fishing gear and
     equipment;

(b)  operating fishing vessels to, from and at fishing grounds;

(c)  baiting, setting and hauling in fishing gear;

(d)  gathering different forms of aquatic life from shores and
     shallow waters;

(e)  cleaning, freezing, icing or salting catch

(f)  delivering or marketing products;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Diver, oyster
  Diver, sponge
  Fisherman, coastal waters
  Fisherwoman, inland waters
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/fishing
        - 1221
  General manager, fishing - 1311
  Labourer, fishery - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/fishing - 1210

6154  HUNTERS AND TRAPPERS
 
     Hunters and trappers catch and kill mammals, birds or
reptiles mainly for  meat, skin, feathers and other products, for
sale or delivery on a regular  basis to wholesale buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting traps to catch mammals, birds or reptiles;

(b)  killing trapped or free mammals, birds or reptiles with
     firearms or other weapons;

(c)  skinning and otherwise treating killed mammals, birds or
     reptiles to obtain desired products for sale or delivery.

(d)  delivering or selling trapped live mammals, birds or
     reptiles-,

(e)  repairing and maintaining equipment.

(f)  performing related tasks-,

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Hunter, seal
  Hunter, whale
  Trapper, fur
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/hunting
        - 1221
  General manager, hunting - 1311
  Labourer, hunting - 9213
  Labourer, trapping - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/hunting - 1210

6152  INLAND AND COASTAL WATERS FISHERY WORKERS
 
     Inland and coastal waters fishery workers, alone or as
members of  fishing-vessel crews, catch fish or gather other
forms of aquatic life in  inland or coastal waters, for sale or
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers, marketing
organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing and repairing nets and other fishing gear and
     equipment;

(b)  operating fishing vessels to, from and at fishing grounds;

(c)  baiting, setting and hauling in fishing gear;

(d)  gathering different forms of aquatic life from shores and
     shallow waters;

(e)  cleaning, freezing, icing or salting catch

(f)  delivering or marketing products;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Diver, oyster
  Diver, sponge
  Fisherman, coastal waters
  Fisherwoman, inland waters
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/fishing
        - 1221
  General manager, fishing - 1311
  Labourer, fishery - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/fishing - 1210

6153  DEEP-SEA FISHERY WORKERS
 
     Deep-sea fishery workers, as members of fishing vessel
crews, catch  deep-sea fish, for sale or delivery on a regular
basis to wholesale buyers,  marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing and repairing nets and other fishing gear and
     equipment;

(b)  operating fishing vessels to, from and at fishing grounds;

(c)  baiting, setting and hauling in fishing gear;

(d)  cleaning, freezing, icing or salting catch on- or offshore;

(e)  delivering or marketing catch;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Fisherman, deep-sea
  Fisherwoman, deep-sea
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/fishing
        - 1221
  General manager, fishing - 1311
  Labourer, fishery - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/fishing - 1210

6152  INLAND AND COASTAL WATERS FISHERY WORKERS
 
     Inland and coastal waters fishery workers, alone or as
members of  fishing-vessel crews, catch fish or gather other
forms of aquatic life in  inland or coastal waters, for sale or
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers, marketing
organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing and repairing nets and other fishing gear and
     equipment;

(b)  operating fishing vessels to, from and at fishing grounds;

(c)  baiting, setting and hauling in fishing gear;

(d)  gathering different forms of aquatic life from shores and
     shallow waters;

(e)  cleaning, freezing, icing or salting catch

(f)  delivering or marketing products;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Diver, oyster
  Diver, sponge
  Fisherman, coastal waters
  Fisherwoman, inland waters
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/fishing
        - 1221
  General manager, fishing - 1311
  Labourer, fishery - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/fishing - 1210

6151  AQUATIC-LIFE CULTIVATION WORKERS
 
     Aquatic-life cultivation workers breed and raise fish and
cultivate  mussels, oysters and other forms of aquatic life, for
sale or delivery on a  regular basis to wholesale buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(b)  purchasing food and other supplies;

(c)  breeding, raising and cultivating fish, mussels, oysters and
     other forms of aquatic life;

(d)  killing and preparing fish and other products for shipment;

(e)  cleaning, freezing, icing or salting catch on- or offshore;

(f)  maintaining buildings, machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Cultivator, algae
  Cultivator, pearl
  Farm worker, skilled/fish
  Farm worker, skilled/seafood on- or offshore;
  Farmer, fish
  Farmer, oyster
  Farmer, seafood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/fishing
        - 1221
  General manager, fishing - 1311
  Labourer, fishery - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/fishing - 1210

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

7233  AGRICULTURAL- OR INDUSTRIAL-MACHINERY MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Agricultural- or industrial-machinery mechanics and fitters
fit, install,  examine, service and repair engines (except motor 
vehicle and aircraft  engines), agricultural  or industrial
machinery and mechanical equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, installing, examining, servicing and repairing
     engines (except motor vehicle and aircraft engines),
     agricultural or industrial machinery and mechanical
     equipment;

(b)  oiling and greasing stationary engines, machinery and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing new machinery and mechanical
     equipment for conformity with standards and specifications;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/marine
  Fitter, mining machinery
  Fitter, textile machinery
  Mechanic, construction machinery
  Mechanic, farm machinery
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/aircraft - 8281

3226  PHYSIOTHERAPISTS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Physiotherapists and related associate professionals treat
disorders of  bones, muscles and parts of the circulatory or the
nervous system by  manipulative methods, and ultrasound, heating,
laser or similar techniques, or  apply physiotherapy and related
therapies as part of the treatment for the physically disabled,
mentally ill or unbalanced.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising communities and individuals on correct body
      postures, for work or otherwise, to avoid injuries and
      strain and to strengthen muscles;


(b)   conducting examinations to make diagnoses of disorders of
      bones, muscles and parts of the circulatory or the nervous
      system to determine proper treatment or refer to Medical
      doctors, if necessary;

(c)   treating disorders of bones, muscles and parts of the
      circulatory or the nervous system by manipulative methods,
      and the use of ultrasound, heating, laser or similar
      techniques;

(d)   massaging client or patient to improve circulation, soothe
      or stimulate nerves, facilitate elimination of waste
      matter, stretch contracted tendons and produce other
      therapeutic effects;

(e)   examining body deformities and disorders to determine and
      write specifications for artificial limbs or other
      appliances, helping to fit them and explaining their use;

(f)   applying physiotherapy and related techniques as part of
      the treatment of the mentally ill or unbalanced;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Chiropractor
  Physiotherapist
  Podiatrist

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Therapist, occupational - 3229

7241  ELECTRICAL MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Electrical mechanics and fitters fit, adjust, install and
repair  electrical machinery and other electrical apparatus and
equipment in  buildings, factories, workshops, or other places.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, adjusting and repairing various kinds of electrical
     machinery and motors, generators, switchgear and control
     apparatus, instruments, or electrical parts of elevators and
     related equipment;

(b)  fitting, adjusting and repairing electrical parts in
     domestic appliances, industrial machines and other
     appliances, or electrical apparatus in aircraft, ships and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing manufactured electrical products;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Builder, armature
  Fitter, electrical/generator
  Mechanic, electrical
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler electrical equipment - 8282

7233  AGRICULTURAL- OR INDUSTRIAL-MACHINERY MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Agricultural- or industrial-machinery mechanics and fitters
fit, install,  examine, service and repair engines (except motor 
vehicle and aircraft  engines), agricultural  or industrial
machinery and mechanical equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, installing, examining, servicing and repairing
     engines (except motor vehicle and aircraft engines),
     agricultural or industrial machinery and mechanical
     equipment;

(b)  oiling and greasing stationary engines, machinery and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing new machinery and mechanical
     equipment for conformity with standards and specifications;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/marine
  Fitter, mining machinery
  Fitter, textile machinery
  Mechanic, construction machinery
  Mechanic, farm machinery
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/aircraft - 8281

7241  ELECTRICAL MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Electrical mechanics and fitters fit, adjust, install and
repair  electrical machinery and other electrical apparatus and
equipment in  buildings, factories, workshops, or other places.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, adjusting and repairing various kinds of electrical
     machinery and motors, generators, switchgear and control
     apparatus, instruments, or electrical parts of elevators and
     related equipment;

(b)  fitting, adjusting and repairing electrical parts in
     domestic appliances, industrial machines and other
     appliances, or electrical apparatus in aircraft, ships and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing manufactured electrical products;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Builder, armature
  Fitter, electrical/generator
  Mechanic, electrical
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler electrical equipment - 8282

7242  ELECTRONICS FITTERS
 

     Electronics fitters fit and adjust computer hardware, as
well as sound  and image recording and transmitting
telecommunications and other electronic  equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting and adjusting computer hardware, sound and image
     recorders and transmitters, radar equipment, electronic
     components of musical instruments, medical or industrial
     equipment and signalling systems;

(b)  inspecting and testing manufactured electronic products;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter electronics/computer equipment
  Fitter, electronics/telecommunications equipment
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, electronic equipment - 8283

7232  AIRCRAFT ENGINE MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Aircraft engine mechanics and fitters fit, service, repair
and overhaul  aircraft engines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, examining, testing and servicing aircraft engines;

(b)  replacing engine components or complete engines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitters engine/aircraft
  Mechanic, engine/aircraft
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, textile machinery - 8281

7233  AGRICULTURAL- OR INDUSTRIAL-MACHINERY MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Agricultural- or industrial-machinery mechanics and fitters
fit, install,  examine, service and repair engines (except motor 
vehicle and aircraft  engines), agricultural  or industrial
machinery and mechanical equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, installing, examining, servicing and repairing
     engines (except motor vehicle and aircraft engines),
     agricultural or industrial machinery and mechanical
     equipment;

(b)  oiling and greasing stationary engines, machinery and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing new machinery and mechanical
     equipment for conformity with standards and specifications;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/marine
  Fitter, mining machinery
  Fitter, textile machinery
  Mechanic, construction machinery
  Mechanic, farm machinery
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/aircraft - 8281

7231  MOTOR VEHICLE MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Motor vehicle mechanics and fitters fit, install, maintain,
service and  repair engines and the mechanical and related
equipment of motor cycles,  passenger cars and delivery trucks
and other motor vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, examining, testing and servicing motor vehicle
     engines;

(b)  replacing engine components or complete engines;

(c)  fitting, examining, adjusting, dismantling, rebuilding and
     replacing defective parts of motor vehicles;

(d)  installing or adjusting motors and brakes, and adjusting
     steering or other parts of motor vehicles;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/motor-vehicle
  Mechanic, garage
  Mechanic, motor-vehicle
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/motor-vehicles - 8281

7233  AGRICULTURAL- OR INDUSTRIAL-MACHINERY MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Agricultural- or industrial-machinery mechanics and fitters
fit, install,  examine, service and repair engines (except motor 
vehicle and aircraft  engines), agricultural  or industrial
machinery and mechanical equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, installing, examining, servicing and repairing
     engines (except motor vehicle and aircraft engines),
     agricultural or industrial machinery and mechanical
     equipment;

(b)  oiling and greasing stationary engines, machinery and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing new machinery and mechanical
     equipment for conformity with standards and specifications;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/marine
  Fitter, mining machinery
  Fitter, textile machinery
  Mechanic, construction machinery
  Mechanic, farm machinery
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/aircraft - 8281

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

7233  AGRICULTURAL- OR INDUSTRIAL-MACHINERY MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Agricultural- or industrial-machinery mechanics and fitters
fit, install,  examine, service and repair engines (except motor 
vehicle and aircraft  engines), agricultural  or industrial
machinery and mechanical equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, installing, examining, servicing and repairing
     engines (except motor vehicle and aircraft engines),
     agricultural or industrial machinery and mechanical
     equipment;

(b)  oiling and greasing stationary engines, machinery and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing new machinery and mechanical
     equipment for conformity with standards and specifications;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/marine
  Fitter, mining machinery
  Fitter, textile machinery
  Mechanic, construction machinery
  Mechanic, farm machinery
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/aircraft - 8281

7136  PLUMBERS AND PIPE FITTERS
 

     Plumbers and pipe fitters assemble, fit, install and repair
plumbing  fixtures, or pipes and pipeline systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting, threading, bending, jointing, assembling,
     installing, maintaining and repairing pipes, fittings and
     fixtures of drainage, heating, water supply and sewerage
     systems;

(b)  assembling, installing, maintaining and repairing pipeline
     systems in ships, aircraft, buildings, industrial plant,
     etc.;

(c)  laying clay, concrete or cast-iron pipes in ditches to form
     sewers, drains or water mains, or for other purposes;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, pipe
  Layer, pipe
  Plumber
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, pipe installation 8290

7233  AGRICULTURAL- OR INDUSTRIAL-MACHINERY MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Agricultural- or industrial-machinery mechanics and fitters
fit, install,  examine, service and repair engines (except motor 
vehicle and aircraft  engines), agricultural  or industrial
machinery and mechanical equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, installing, examining, servicing and repairing
     engines (except motor vehicle and aircraft engines),
     agricultural or industrial machinery and mechanical
     equipment;

(b)  oiling and greasing stationary engines, machinery and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing new machinery and mechanical
     equipment for conformity with standards and specifications;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/marine
  Fitter, mining machinery
  Fitter, textile machinery
  Mechanic, construction machinery
  Mechanic, farm machinery
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/aircraft - 8281

7135  GLAZIERS
 

     Glaziers cut, fit and set glass in windows, doors, shop
fronts and other  frames.

     Tasks include -

(a)  selecting glass panes, cutting them to measure and fixing
     them in windows, doors and partitions of buildings;

(b)  fastening glass panes in skylights;

(c)  installing flat or curved glass in shop fronts, swing-doors,
     show-cases, portholes or other openings;

(d)  cutting, assembling and installing pieces of glass in lead
     or copper framework to form decorative windows and panels;

(e)  installing ordinary or shatter-proof glass panels in
     windows, doors and windscreens of vehicles;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Glazier
  Glazier, roofing
  Glazier, vehicle

7233  AGRICULTURAL- OR INDUSTRIAL-MACHINERY MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Agricultural- or industrial-machinery mechanics and fitters
fit, install,  examine, service and repair engines (except motor 
vehicle and aircraft  engines), agricultural  or industrial
machinery and mechanical equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, installing, examining, servicing and repairing
     engines (except motor vehicle and aircraft engines),
     agricultural or industrial machinery and mechanical
     equipment;

(b)  oiling and greasing stationary engines, machinery and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing new machinery and mechanical
     equipment for conformity with standards and specifications;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/marine
  Fitter, mining machinery
  Fitter, textile machinery
  Mechanic, construction machinery
  Mechanic, farm machinery
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/aircraft - 8281

7124  CARPENTERS AND JOINERS
 

     Carpenters and joiners cut, shape, assemble, erect, maintain
and repair various types of wooden structures and fittings.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, altering and repairing structural and other woodwork
     at a work-bench and on a construction site;

(b)  constructing, erecting and installing heavy-framed wooden
     structures on building sites;

(c)  fitting, assembling and altering internal and external
     fixtures of buildings, such as walls, doors, door and window
     frames, facings and panelling;

(d)  making, repairing and fitting scenic equipment for
     theatrical 
     performances, motion picture or television productions;

(e)  constructing, assembling, altering and repairing wooden
     fixtures and fittings in train coaches, aircraft, ships,
     boats, floats, pontoons and other vehicles;

(f)  cutting, shaping, fitting and assembling wooden parts,
     mainly at a work-bench;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carpenter
  Joiner
  Shipwright, wood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cabinet-maker - 7422
  Wheel-wright - 7422

7233  AGRICULTURAL- OR INDUSTRIAL-MACHINERY MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Agricultural- or industrial-machinery mechanics and fitters
fit, install,  examine, service and repair engines (except motor 
vehicle and aircraft  engines), agricultural  or industrial
machinery and mechanical equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, installing, examining, servicing and repairing
     engines (except motor vehicle and aircraft engines),
     agricultural or industrial machinery and mechanical
     equipment;

(b)  oiling and greasing stationary engines, machinery and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing new machinery and mechanical
     equipment for conformity with standards and specifications;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/marine
  Fitter, mining machinery
  Fitter, textile machinery
  Mechanic, construction machinery
  Mechanic, farm machinery
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/aircraft - 8281

7136  PLUMBERS AND PIPE FITTERS
 

     Plumbers and pipe fitters assemble, fit, install and repair
plumbing  fixtures, or pipes and pipeline systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting, threading, bending, jointing, assembling,
     installing, maintaining and repairing pipes, fittings and
     fixtures of drainage, heating, water supply and sewerage
     systems;

(b)  assembling, installing, maintaining and repairing pipeline
     systems in ships, aircraft, buildings, industrial plant,
     etc.;

(c)  laying clay, concrete or cast-iron pipes in ditches to form
     sewers, drains or water mains, or for other purposes;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, pipe
  Layer, pipe
  Plumber
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, pipe installation 8290

7233  AGRICULTURAL- OR INDUSTRIAL-MACHINERY MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Agricultural- or industrial-machinery mechanics and fitters
fit, install,  examine, service and repair engines (except motor 
vehicle and aircraft  engines), agricultural  or industrial
machinery and mechanical equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, installing, examining, servicing and repairing
     engines (except motor vehicle and aircraft engines),
     agricultural or industrial machinery and mechanical
     equipment;

(b)  oiling and greasing stationary engines, machinery and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing new machinery and mechanical
     equipment for conformity with standards and specifications;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/marine
  Fitter, mining machinery
  Fitter, textile machinery
  Mechanic, construction machinery
  Mechanic, farm machinery
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/aircraft - 8281

7232  AIRCRAFT ENGINE MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Aircraft engine mechanics and fitters fit, service, repair
and overhaul  aircraft engines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, examining, testing and servicing aircraft engines;

(b)  replacing engine components or complete engines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitters engine/aircraft
  Mechanic, engine/aircraft
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, textile machinery - 8281

7432  WEAVERS, KNITTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

  
     Weavers, knitters and related workers spin and wind yarn by
hand, weave  materials on hand looms, make carpets by using a
knotting technique, knit  garment fabrics by hand or hand-
operated machine or perform similar  manufacturing tasks by hand
or hand-operated machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  spinning and winding yarn by hand;

(b)  drawing warp threads into loom by hand;

(c)  weaving plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpet or
     other fabrics on hand looms;

(d)  making carpets by using a knotting technique;

(e)  knitting garments and other articles on hand-operated
     machine or by hand;

(f)  crocheting or making braid by hand;

(g)  making nets by hand;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Knitter
  Spinner, thread and yarn
  Threader, loom
  Weaver, carpet
  Weaver cloth
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, knitting - 8262
  Machine-operator, weaving - 8262

7129  BUILDING FRAME AND RELATED TRADES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers building frame and related trades
workers not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 712, Building
frame and related trades  workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who perform
miscellaneous  construction and building maintenance tasks.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  performing miscellaneous construction and building
     maintenance work on structures such as office buildings,
     apartment houses, factories and similar establishments in
     good repair;

(b)  performing construction, maintenance or repair work at
     unusual heights;

(c)  erecting temporary metal or wooden scaffolding on building
     sites;

(d)  demolishing buildings and other structures;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Demolition worker
  Housebuilder, non-traditional materials
  Scaffolder
  Steeplejack
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Labourer, construction/buildings 9313
  Labourer, demolition - 9313

7212    WELDERS AND FLAMECUTTERS
 

     Welders and flame cutters weld and cut metal parts using gas
flame, or an  electric arc and other sources of heat to melt and
cut, or to melt and fuse  metal.

     Tasks include -

(a)  welding metal parts using gas flame, or an electric arc,
     thermite compound or other methods;

(b)  operating resistance-welding machines;

(c)  using blowtorch to make and repair lead linings, pipes,
     floors and other lead fixtures;

(d)  brazing metal parts together;

(e)  cutting metal pieces using gas flame or an electric arc;

(f)  joining metal parts by hand soldering;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Brazier
  Flamecutter
  Welder

7416  TOBACCO PREPARERS AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Tobacco preparers and tobacco products makers prepare
tobacco leaves and  make various tobacco products.

     Tasks  include -

(a)  grading cured tobacco leaves by type, quality and locality
     where grown;

(b)  mixing tobacco leaves according to formula to obtain a blend
     of distinct flavour;

(c)  tending vacuum container which moistens tobacco for further
     processing;

(d)  removing midribs and stalks from tobacco leaves and
     shredding tobacco;

(e)  making cigars, cigarettes, snuff and other tobacco products
     by hand or with simple machines;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, tobacco
  Maker, cigar
  Maker, cigarette
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, cigar production - 8279
  Machine-operator, cigarette production - 8279

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

6154  HUNTERS AND TRAPPERS
 
     Hunters and trappers catch and kill mammals, birds or
reptiles mainly for  meat, skin, feathers and other products, for
sale or delivery on a regular  basis to wholesale buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting traps to catch mammals, birds or reptiles;

(b)  killing trapped or free mammals, birds or reptiles with
     firearms or other weapons;

(c)  skinning and otherwise treating killed mammals, birds or
     reptiles to obtain desired products for sale or delivery.

(d)  delivering or selling trapped live mammals, birds or
     reptiles-,

(e)  repairing and maintaining equipment.

(f)  performing related tasks-,

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Hunter, seal
  Hunter, whale
  Trapper, fur
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/hunting
        - 1221
  General manager, hunting - 1311
  Labourer, hunting - 9213
  Labourer, trapping - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/hunting - 1210

7441  PELT DRESSERS, TANNERS AND FELLMONGERS
 

     Pelt dressers, tanners and fellmongers prepare fur- and
wool-bearing  pelts for making garments and other products, and
make leather from hides and  skins.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sorting and grading pelts, hides and skins;

(b)  removing flesh and fat from pelts before curing;

(c)  removing flesh and hair from hides;

(d)  removing long, coarse hair from pelts and trimming
     underlying hair to even length;

(e)  operating machine to split hides edgeways;

(f)  treating hides to convert them into leather;

(g)  applying dyes to fur pelts;

(h)  dressing and applying dyes and stains to leather;

(i)  stretching and smoothing dressed pelts;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fellmonger
  Grader, pelt
  Tanner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, tanning - 8265

4133  TRANSPORT CLERKS
 
     Transport clerks keep records of operational aspects and
coordinate the  timing of train, road and air passenger and
freight transport, and prepare  reports for management.
     Tasks include -

(a)  keeping records of operational aspects, and coordinating the
     timing of passenger and freight transport;

(b)  directing train routings within a division or zone of a
     railway system and keeping related records;
(c)  directing, controlling and keeping records of freight
     handling at a railway yard;
(d)  coordinating and keeping records of operational activities
     concerning road transport, such as allocation and scheduling
     of vehicles and drivers, loading and unloading of vehicles
     and storage of goods in transit;
(e)  coordinating and keeping records of operational activities
     concerning air transport of passengers and freight, such as
     passenger lists and freight manifests;
(f)  preparing reports for management;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Controller, clerical/air transport service
  Controller, clerical/railway service
  Controller, clerical/road transport service
  Dispatcher, clerical/boat
  Dispatcher, clerical/bus
  Dispatcher, clerical/train
  Dispatcher, clerical/truck

8112  MINERAL-ORE- AND STONE-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mineral-ore- and stone-processing-plant operators operate
and monitor  machinery and equipment for processing mineral ore
and stone.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which crushes and breaks
     lumps of minerals and stones to required size;

(b)  operating and monitoring washing, separating, leaching,
     precipitating, filtering, extracting and combining equipment
     to wash mineral ores in order to remove waste material;

(c)  combining mineral ores with solvents to facilitate further
     processing;

(d)  separating metal or mineral concentrates from ore or
     alluvial deposits by thickening, flotation, gravity
     separation, filtration, or magnetic or electrostatic
     separation;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Floatation worker, minerals
  Machine-operator, crushing/mineral ore
  Machine-operator, milling/minerals
  Machine-operator, stone processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cutter, stone - 7113
  Splitter, stone - 7113

7132  FLOOR LAYERS AND TILE SETTERS
 

     Floor layers and tile setters install, maintain and repair
parquet and  other kinds of flooring, or they cover floors, walls
and other surfaces with tiles or mosaic panels for decorative or
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing floor areas for covering with parquet, tiles or
     other materials;

(b)  assembling parquetry pieces or other materials and laying
     them on floors according to design and other specifications;

(c)  preparing wall areas for covering with tiles or other
     materials for decorative or other purposes such as
     acoustical insulation;

(d)  setting tiles and constructing and laying mosaic panels to
     walls, floors and other surfaces;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Parquetry worker 
 Setter, marble 
 Setter, tile

2213  AGRONOMISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Agronomists and related professionals conduct research and
improve or  develop concepts, theories and operational methods,
and apply scientific  knowledge relating to crop and animal
husbandry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   researching into field crops and grasses and developing new
      or improved cultivation methods;

(b)   researching into horticultural crops and developing new or
      improved cultivation methods;

(c)   researching into animal husbandry and developing new or
      improved breeding methods;

(d)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for tree propagation and culture, or planning and directing
      afforestation and exploitation of forest stands;

(e)   researching into characteristics, use capability and
      productivity of soils and applying findings to development
      of improved agricultural, horticultural and forestry
      practices;

(f)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for wildlife conservation;

(g)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for economic exploitation of grazing lands;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Agronomist
  Animal scientist
  Forestry scientist
  Horticulturist
  Soil scientist

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

2112  METEOROLOGISTS 
     Meteorologists conduct research, improve or develop
concepts, theories  and operational methods related to the
composition, structure and dynamics of  the atmosphere, and
prepare detailed or long-term weather forecasts used in 
aviation, shipping, agriculture and other areas and for the
information of the  general public.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods related to the
      composition, structure and dynamics of the atmosphere;

(b)   investigating direction and speed of air movements,
      pressures, temperatures, humidity and other phenomena such
      as cloud formation and precipitation, electrical
      disturbances or solar radiation;

(c)   studying data collected from weather stations, preparing
      detailed or long term weather maps and forecasts used in
      aviation, shipping, agriculture and other areas and for the
      information of the general public;

(d)   conducting experiments in fog dispersal, rain-making and
      other types of weather control;

(e)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(f)   performing related tasks;



(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Climatologist
  Forecaster, weather

  Meteorologist


6141  FORESTRY WORKERS AND LOGGERS
 
     Forestry workers and loggers carry out the necessary
operations to  cultivate, conserve and exploit forests, for sale
or delivery of forestry  products on a regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a) establishing and caring for forest stands;

(b)  locating trees to be felled and estimating volume of timber;

(c)  trimming, topping and felling trees and sawing them into
     logs;

(d)  shaping rough wooden products from logs at felling site;

(e)  stacking logs, loading them in chutes or floating them down
     rivers;

(f)  keeping watch to detect forest fires and participating in
     firefighting operations;

(g)  delivering or marketing forestry products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Climber, logging
  Cruiser, timber
  Feller-bucker, tree
  Forestry worker, skilled
  Logger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/forestry
        - 1221
  General manager, forestry - 1311
  Labourer, forestry - 9212
  Managing director, enterprise/forestry - 1210
  Operator, forestry machinery - 8331

2213  AGRONOMISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Agronomists and related professionals conduct research and
improve or  develop concepts, theories and operational methods,
and apply scientific  knowledge relating to crop and animal
husbandry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   researching into field crops and grasses and developing new
      or improved cultivation methods;

(b)   researching into horticultural crops and developing new or
      improved cultivation methods;

(c)   researching into animal husbandry and developing new or
      improved breeding methods;

(d)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for tree propagation and culture, or planning and directing
      afforestation and exploitation of forest stands;

(e)   researching into characteristics, use capability and
      productivity of soils and applying findings to development
      of improved agricultural, horticultural and forestry
      practices;

(f)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for wildlife conservation;

(g)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for economic exploitation of grazing lands;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Agronomist
  Animal scientist
  Forestry scientist
  Horticulturist
  Soil scientist

6141  FORESTRY WORKERS AND LOGGERS
 
     Forestry workers and loggers carry out the necessary
operations to  cultivate, conserve and exploit forests, for sale
or delivery of forestry  products on a regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a) establishing and caring for forest stands;

(b)  locating trees to be felled and estimating volume of timber;

(c)  trimming, topping and felling trees and sawing them into
     logs;

(d)  shaping rough wooden products from logs at felling site;

(e)  stacking logs, loading them in chutes or floating them down
     rivers;

(f)  keeping watch to detect forest fires and participating in
     firefighting operations;

(g)  delivering or marketing forestry products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Climber, logging
  Cruiser, timber
  Feller-bucker, tree
  Forestry worker, skilled
  Logger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/forestry
        - 1221
  General manager, forestry - 1311
  Labourer, forestry - 9212
  Managing director, enterprise/forestry - 1210
  Operator, forestry machinery - 8331

6142  CHARCOAL BURNERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Charcoal burners and related workers carry out the necessary
operations  to convert wood into charcoal or to extract crude
turpentine from wood, using  traditional techniques.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating a simple kiln to convert wood into charcoal by a
     slow-burning process.

(b)  operating a simple digester or still at the tree-felling
     site to obtain or distil crude wood turpentine-,

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Burner, charcoal
  Forestry worker, skilled/wood distillation (traditional
        techniques)

7221  BLACKSMITHS, HAMMER-SMITHS AND FORGING-PRESS WORKERS
 

     Blacksmiths, hammer-smiths and forging-press workers draw
wire, hammer  and forge bars, rods, ingots and plates of iron,
steel or other metals to make  and repair various kinds of tools,
metal articles, pieces of equipment,  agricultural and related
implements.

     Tasks include -

(a)  heating metal in forge furnace and manufacturing and
     repairing articles by drawing, bending, cutting, hammering
     metal on an anvil, punching, shearing, joining and hardening
     or tempering;

(b)  shaping heated metal into forgings on power hammer equipped
     with open dies;

(c)  operating closed-die drop hammer to forge metal articles;

(d)  operating a power-press machine equipped with closed dies
to
     forge metal articles;

(e)  drawing wire;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blacksmith
  Drop-hammer worker
  Forging-press worker
  Hammer-smith
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, casting/metal - 8122
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

5152  FORTUNE-TELLERS, PALMISTS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Fortune-tellers, palmists and related workers recount past
and forecast  future events on the basis of the characteristics
of clients' palms, samples  of playing cards drawn at random or
other factors.

     Tasks include -

(a)  interpreting characteristics of clients' palms, samples of
     playing cards, position of tea leaves or coffee remnants in
     a cup, shapes and patterns of bones of dead animals, etc.;

(b)  forecasting future events on the basis of these
     interpretations;

(c)  giving warnings and advice on possible courses of action;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Fortune-teller
  Numerologist
  Palmist

7345  BOOKBINDERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Bookbinders and related workers bind covers to books and
perform  book-finishing operations.

     Tasks include -

(a)  binding books and periodicals by hand;

(b)  setting and operating bookbinding machines;

(c)  embossing designs or titles on books by hand or machine;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Bookbinder
  Embosser, book
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, bookbinding 8252

9333  FREIGHT HANDLERS
 

     Freight handlers carry out tasks such as packing, carrying,
loading and  unloading furniture and other household items, or
loading and unloading ship  and aircraft cargoes and other
freight, or carrying and stacking goods in  various warehouses.

     Tasks include -

(a)  packing office or household furniture, machines, appliances
     and related goods to be transported from one place to
     another;

(b)  carrying goods to be loaded on or unloaded from vans,
     trucks, wagons, ships, or aircraft;

(c)  loading and unloading grain, coal, sand and similar goods
     by placing them on conveyor-belts, pipes, etc. ;

(d)  connecting hoses between main shore installation pipes and
     tanks of barges, tankers and other ships to load and unload
     petroleum, liquefied gases and other liquids;

(e)  carrying and stacking goods in warehouses and similar
     establishments;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Handler, freight
Some related occupations classified else where:
  Operator, crane - 8333
  Operator, truck/lifting - 8334

7216  UNDERWATER WORKERS
 

     Underwater workers work under water, dressed in scuba gear
or diving  suit, to inspect, install, repair, and remove
equipment and structures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  working under water to lay and repair bridges, piers and
     harbour-wall foundations;

(b)  inspecting for suspected damage and making minor repairs to
     ships' hulls and underwater installations;

(c)  reporting on condition of wrecked ships;

(d)  removing underwater obstructions;

(e)  drilling holes for underwater blasting;

(f)  performing various underwater tasks connected with salvage
     work or recovering dead bodies;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Frogman, salvage
  Underwater worker

7323  GLASS ENGRAVERS AND ETCHERS
 

     Glass engravers and etchers engrave and etch designs on
glass articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  engraving monograms and ornamental designs on glassware;

(b)  etching decorative designs, calibration markings and other
     figures on glass articles;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cutter, crystal glass
  Engraver, glass
  Etcher, glass

5143  UNDERTAKERS AND EMBALMERS
 
     Undertakers and embalmers perform various tasks in the
disposal of dead  human bodies.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making arrangements for, and conducting, funerals,
     cremations and burials;

(b)  embalming human bodies to retard or arrest the process of
     decay;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Embalmer
  Undertaker

7434  FURRIERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Furriers and related workers make, alter, repair and restyle
garments and  other articles made of fur, or participate in the
manufacture of ready-to-wear  fur garments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  choosing, stretching and trimming dressed furs to conform
     to the chosen pattern outline of fur garments or other
     articles;

(b)  making coats, jackets and other fur garments and articles;

(c)  participation in the manufacture of ready-to-wear fur
     clothing;

(d)  reclaiming furs or skins from old coats, gluing fabric to
     interior of fur coats and trimming blocked fur garments;

(e)  altering, restyling and repairing fur garments and other fur
     articles;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furrier
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, sewing/fur - 8263

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8123  METAL-HEAT-TREATING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Metal-heat-treating-plant operators operate and monitor
plant altering  the physical properties of metal objects by
heating, cooling and chemical  treatment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring furnaces which heat and cool metal
     objects to relieve internal stresses, restore ductility and
     refine grain structure;

(b)  operating and monitoring furnaces which harden steel
     objects;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which imparts a hard skin and
     tough, ductile core to steel objects by treating them with
     chemicals, heating and quenching or cooling them;

(d)  operating and monitoring furnaces which reheat hardened
     steel objects to relieve stresses and to impart toughness;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Annealer
  Furnace-operator, hardening/metal
  Furnace-operator, heat-treating/metal

8152  CHEMICAL-HEAT-TREATING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Chemical-heat-treating-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which cook, roast and provide other
types of heat treatment in  chemical and related processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which cook
     materials in order to purify, mix or compound them, give
     them special properties or effect chemical changes in them;

(b)  operating and monitoring ovens, kilns or similar devices
     which heat substances in order to dry them, give them
     special properties or effect chemical changes in them ;

(c)  operating and monitoring driers for the processing of
     chemicals and related materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Kiln-operator, chemical and related processes
  Operator, cement production plant
  Operator, roasting equipment/chemical and related
        processes

8121  ORE AND METAL FURNACE OPERATORS
 

     Ore and metal furnace operators operate and monitor ore-
smelting,  metal-converting and refining furnaces.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring blast furnaces to smelt ores for
     the production of ferrous or non-ferrous metals;

(b)  operating and monitoring furnaces to convert or refine pig-
     iron or scrap-metal to produce steel;

(c)  operating and monitoring furnaces to convert or refine non-
     ferrous metals;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, converting/non-ferrous metals
  Furnace-operator, refining/steel (open-hearth furnace)
  Furnace-operator, smelting/metal (blast furnace)

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8123  METAL-HEAT-TREATING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Metal-heat-treating-plant operators operate and monitor
plant altering  the physical properties of metal objects by
heating, cooling and chemical  treatment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring furnaces which heat and cool metal
     objects to relieve internal stresses, restore ductility and
     refine grain structure;

(b)  operating and monitoring furnaces which harden steel
     objects;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which imparts a hard skin and
     tough, ductile core to steel objects by treating them with
     chemicals, heating and quenching or cooling them;

(d)  operating and monitoring furnaces which reheat hardened
     steel objects to relieve stresses and to impart toughness;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Annealer
  Furnace-operator, hardening/metal
  Furnace-operator, heat-treating/metal

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8122  METAL MELTERS, CASTERS AND ROLLING-MILL OPERATORS
 

     Metal melters, casters and rolling-mill operators operate
and monitor  rolling mills to roll metal, or furnaces to melt or
reheat metal, or machines  to cast metal.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring furnaces to melt ferrous and non-
     ferrous metal for casting;

(b)  operating and monitoring furnaces to reheat stock metal
     forms prior to forging, power-pressing, rolling and further
     processing;

(c)  operating and monitoring rolling mills to shape hot or cold
     steel into shapes for further processing, or into final
     shapes;

(d)  operating and monitoring rolling mills to reduce or form hot
     or cold non-ferrous metal to specified shapes, such as
     plate, sheet or foil;

(e)  operating and monitoring rolls to form seamless tubes and
     pipes from billets which have been pierced longitudinally;

(f)  pouring molten metal into moulds and operating and
     monitoring casting machines

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, melting/metal
  Machine-operator, casting/metal
  Operator, rolling mill/nonferrous metal

8121  ORE AND METAL FURNACE OPERATORS
 

     Ore and metal furnace operators operate and monitor ore-
smelting,  metal-converting and refining furnaces.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring blast furnaces to smelt ores for
     the production of ferrous or non-ferrous metals;

(b)  operating and monitoring furnaces to convert or refine pig-
     iron or scrap-metal to produce steel;

(c)  operating and monitoring furnaces to convert or refine non-
     ferrous metals;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, converting/non-ferrous metals
  Furnace-operator, refining/steel (open-hearth furnace)
  Furnace-operator, smelting/metal (blast furnace)

8163  INCINERATOR, WATER-TREATMENT AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS

 

     Incinerator, water-treatment and related plant operators
operate and  monitor various types of plant, such as
incinerators, water treatment plant,  air and gas compressors,
pumping stations, refrigeration or heating and  ventilation
systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring incinerator machinery and equipment
     which burn garbage or other waste materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which
     purify and clarify water for human consumption or use and
     later disposal into natural water systems;

(c)  operating and monitoring air and gas compressors';

(d)  operating and monitoring pumping stations for transferring
     liquids, gases, semi-liquids and powdered substances from
     one location to another;

(e)  operating and monitoring refrigeration systems for cool or
     cold storage, or industrial processes;

(f)  operating and monitoring heating and ventilation systems ;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, incinerator/refuse disposal
  Operator, pumping-station/water
  Operator, water purification plant

8122  METAL MELTERS, CASTERS AND ROLLING-MILL OPERATORS
 

     Metal melters, casters and rolling-mill operators operate
and monitor  rolling mills to roll metal, or furnaces to melt or
reheat metal, or machines  to cast metal.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring furnaces to melt ferrous and non-
     ferrous metal for casting;

(b)  operating and monitoring furnaces to reheat stock metal
     forms prior to forging, power-pressing, rolling and further
     processing;

(c)  operating and monitoring rolling mills to shape hot or cold
     steel into shapes for further processing, or into final
     shapes;

(d)  operating and monitoring rolling mills to reduce or form hot
     or cold non-ferrous metal to specified shapes, such as
     plate, sheet or foil;

(e)  operating and monitoring rolls to form seamless tubes and
     pipes from billets which have been pierced longitudinally;

(f)  pouring molten metal into moulds and operating and
     monitoring casting machines

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, melting/metal
  Machine-operator, casting/metal
  Operator, rolling mill/nonferrous metal

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8121  ORE AND METAL FURNACE OPERATORS
 

     Ore and metal furnace operators operate and monitor ore-
smelting,  metal-converting and refining furnaces.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring blast furnaces to smelt ores for
     the production of ferrous or non-ferrous metals;

(b)  operating and monitoring furnaces to convert or refine pig-
     iron or scrap-metal to produce steel;

(c)  operating and monitoring furnaces to convert or refine non-
     ferrous metals;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, converting/non-ferrous metals
  Furnace-operator, refining/steel (open-hearth furnace)
  Furnace-operator, smelting/metal (blast furnace)

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

9333  FREIGHT HANDLERS
 

     Freight handlers carry out tasks such as packing, carrying,
loading and  unloading furniture and other household items, or
loading and unloading ship  and aircraft cargoes and other
freight, or carrying and stacking goods in  various warehouses.

     Tasks include -

(a)  packing office or household furniture, machines, appliances
     and related goods to be transported from one place to
     another;

(b)  carrying goods to be loaded on or unloaded from vans,
     trucks, wagons, ships, or aircraft;

(c)  loading and unloading grain, coal, sand and similar goods
     by placing them on conveyor-belts, pipes, etc. ;

(d)  connecting hoses between main shore installation pipes and
     tanks of barges, tankers and other ships to load and unload
     petroleum, liquefied gases and other liquids;

(e)  carrying and stacking goods in warehouses and similar
     establishments;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Handler, freight
Some related occupations classified else where:
  Operator, crane - 8333
  Operator, truck/lifting - 8334

7434  FURRIERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Furriers and related workers make, alter, repair and restyle
garments and  other articles made of fur, or participate in the
manufacture of ready-to-wear  fur garments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  choosing, stretching and trimming dressed furs to conform
     to the chosen pattern outline of fur garments or other
     articles;

(b)  making coats, jackets and other fur garments and articles;

(c)  participation in the manufacture of ready-to-wear fur
     clothing;

(d)  reclaiming furs or skins from old coats, gluing fabric to
     interior of fur coats and trimming blocked fur garments;

(e)  altering, restyling and repairing fur garments and other fur
     articles;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furrier
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, sewing/fur - 8263

6154  HUNTERS AND TRAPPERS
 
     Hunters and trappers catch and kill mammals, birds or
reptiles mainly for  meat, skin, feathers and other products, for
sale or delivery on a regular  basis to wholesale buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting traps to catch mammals, birds or reptiles;

(b)  killing trapped or free mammals, birds or reptiles with
     firearms or other weapons;

(c)  skinning and otherwise treating killed mammals, birds or
     reptiles to obtain desired products for sale or delivery.

(d)  delivering or selling trapped live mammals, birds or
     reptiles-,

(e)  repairing and maintaining equipment.

(f)  performing related tasks-,

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Hunter, seal
  Hunter, whale
  Trapper, fur
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/hunting
        - 1221
  General manager, hunting - 1311
  Labourer, hunting - 9213
  Labourer, trapping - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/hunting - 1210

5169  PROTECTIVE SERVICES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers protective services workers not
classified  elsewhere in Minor group 516, Protective services
workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who patrol
buildings and  areas to prevent illegal entry, theft, violence
and other unlawful acts, and  who, if necessary, use force to
prevent such acts and apprehend perpetrators,  as well as those
who act as bodyguards, life-guards or game-wardens.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  patrolling buildings and areas to prevent theft, violence,
     infractions of rules or other irregularities;

(b)  if necessary, exercising the right to use force and to 
     apprehend.perpetrators;

(c)  performing the duties of a bodyguard;

(d)  patrolling beaches and swimming pools to prevent accidents
     and to rescue bathers from drowning;

(e)  patrolling natural reserves, game parks, forest areas and
     enclosures to prevent theft and killing of game;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Bodyguard
  Game-warden
  Life-guard
  Patrolman, security
  Patrolwoman, security
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Doorkeeper - 91 52
  Guard, museum - 9152
  Watchman - 9152
  Watchwoman - 9152

6129  MARKET-ORIENTED ANIMAL PRODUCERS AND RELATED WORKERS NOT
ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED

 
     This unit group covers market-oriented animal producers and
related  workers not classified elsewhere in Minor group 612,
Market-oriented animal  producers and related workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  breeding, raising and tending wild mammals, game
birds and other birds,  snails, non-domesticated fur-giving
animals, snakes and other reptiles, as well  as various insects
and animals used for laboratory tests, for sale or delivery  on
a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations,
zoos and  circuses, or at markets. Here should also be classified
those who look after  or train animals in animal reserves,
stables, zoos, circuses, research  organisations, animal homes,
and similar institutions.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  buying or setting up necessary buildings, open or sheltered
     space, equipment, etc., and maintaining them;

(b)  determining kinds and amounts of animals to be raised;

(c)  purchasing animals, growing or purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(d)  breeding, raising, feeding and tending animals;

(e)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market

(f)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(g)  protecting animals, especially in animal reserves;

(h)  training animals for racing, circus performances and the
     like;

(i)  delivering or marketing products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, bird
  Breeder, game bird
  Breeder, laboratory animal/mice
  Breeder, lion
  Breeder, snail
  Farmer, fur/non-domesticated animals
  Keeper, animal reserve
  Keeper, zoo
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Game-warden - 5169

5163  PRISON GUARDS
 
     Prison guards watch over and maintain discipline among
inmates of  prisons, reformatories or penitentiaries.


Tasks include -

(a)  searching arriving prisoners, putting their valuables in
     safekeeping, escorting prisoners to cells and locking them
     in;

(b)  making periodic inspection tours of cells;

(c)  supervising prisoners at work, meals, or during walks and
     patrolling prison areas to prevent escape;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Guard, prison

6113  GARDENERS, HORTICULTURAL AND NURSERY GROWERS
 
     Gardeners, horticultural and nursery growers plan and carry
out the  necessary operations to grow vegetables by intensive
cultivation techniques,  to cultivate trees, shrubs, flowers and
other plants, and to produce saplings,  bulbs and seeds, for sale
or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers,  marketing
organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of vegetables, horticultural
     and nursery products to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, bulbs, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery-

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     growing vegetables by intensive cultivation, cultivating
     flowers, trees or bushes and harvesting crops;

(e)  producing saplings, bulbs and seeds;

(f)  cultivating flowers, trees, shrubs and other plants in parks
     or public or private gardens;

(g)  growing plants for exhibition or medicinal purposes;

(h)  delivering or marketing products;

(i)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(j)  tending working animals and maintaining buildings, machinery
     and equipment;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Cultivator, mushroom
  Farm worker, skilled/nursery
  Gardener
  Grower, horticultural nursery
  Horticultural grower
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

7322  GLASS-MAKERS, CUTTERS, GRINDERS AND FINISHERS
 

     Glass-makers, cutters, grinders and finishers blow, mould,
press and roll  shapes from molten glass and cut, grind and
polish glass.

     Tasks include -

(a)  shaping molten glass by means of blowpipe, hand moulding,
     heating and bending;

(b)  heating, moulding and pressing optical glass to make lens
     blanks;

(c)  grinding and polishing lens blanks;

(d)  grinding and bevelling edges of glass;

(e)  cutting sheet glass with hand tools and sawing prisms and
     other shapes from optical glass blocks;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blower, glass
  Cutter, glass
  Finisher, glass
  Grinder, glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Furnace-operator, glass production - 8131

9213  FISHERY, HUNTING AND TRAPPING LABOURERS
 

     Fishery, hunting and trapping labourers, by performing a
variety of  simple tasks, help with work connected with fish and
seafood cultivation, or  with hunting and trapping.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cleaning the sea-bed and feeding fish and mollusca that are
     being cultivated;

(b)  gathering seaweed, sea mosses, clams and other mollusca;

(c)  digging pits and holes, setting traps, keeping watch and
     performing other simple tasks connected with hunting and
     trapping;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, fishery
  Labourer, hunting
  Labourer, trapping
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Hunter - 6154
  Trapper, fur - 6154
  Fishery  worker, skilled/pisciculture - 6151

2443  PHILOSOPHERS, HISTORIANS AND POLITICAL SCIENTISTS 
     Philosophers, historians and political scientists work,
mostly by  reasoning, in the field of epistemology, metaphysics
or ethics.  They conduct  research and describe past events and
activities, including the development of  social and economic
structures, or cultural and political institutions and 
movements, and make the knowledge obtained available as a basis
for political,  diplomatic and related policies.

     Tasks include -

(a)   researching, mostly by reasoning, into the general causes,
      principles and meanings of the world, human actions,
      experience and existence, and interpreting and developing
      philosophical concepts and theories;

(b)   consulting and comparing primary sources, such as original
      or contemporary records of past events, and secondary
      sources such as archaeological or anthropological findings;

(c)   extracting relevant material, checking its authenticity,
      and researching into and describing the history of a
      particular period, country or region, or a particular facet
      - for example economic, social or political - of its
      history;

(d)   conducting research in such fields as political philosophy,
      or past and present theory and practice of political
      systems, institutions or behaviour;

(e)   observing contemporary political institutions and
      collecting data on them from various sources, including
      interviews with government and political party officials
      and other relevant persons;

(f)   presenting findings and conclusions for publication or use
      by government, political parties or other organisations and
      interested persons;

(g)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Historian
  Philosopher
  Political scientist

1311  GENERAL MANAGERS IN AGRICULTURE, HUNTING, FORESTRY AND
FISHING 
      General managers in agriculture, hunting, forestry and
fishing head small  agricultural farms or hunting, forestry or
fishing businesses and, on their  own behalf or on behalf of the
proprietor, plan, direct and coordinate the  activities of the
business, with the assistance of no more than one other  manager
and some non-managerial help.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;

(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 General manager, agriculture 

 General manager, fishing General manager, forestry 

 General manager, hunting 

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Department manager, production and
         operations/agriculture - 1221 

 Farmer, field crop - 6111 

 Farmer, livestock - 6121 

 Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1 21 0 

1315  GENERAL MANAGERS OF RESTAURANTS AND HOTELS 
      General managers of restaurants and hotels head small
restaurant or hotel  businesses and, on their own behalf or on
behalf of the proprietor, plan,  direct and coordinate the
activities of the business, with the assistance of  no more than
one other manager and some non-managerial help.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;

(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 General manager, hotel 

 General manager, restaurant 

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Department manager, production and operations/restaurant
         - 1225 

 Managing director, enterprise/hotel - 1210 

1317  GENERAL MANAGERS OF BUSINESS SERVICES 
      General managers of business services head small firms
providing various  business services and, on their own behalf or
on behalf of the proprietor,  plan, direct and coordinate the
activities of the enterprise with the  assistance of no more than
one other manager and some non-managerial help.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;

(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers,

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 General manager, business services 

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Department manager, production and operations/business
         services - 1227 

 Managing director, enterprise/ business services - 1210 

1315  GENERAL MANAGERS OF RESTAURANTS AND HOTELS 
      General managers of restaurants and hotels head small
restaurant or hotel  businesses and, on their own behalf or on
behalf of the proprietor, plan,  direct and coordinate the
activities of the business, with the assistance of  no more than
one other manager and some non-managerial help.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;

(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 General manager, hotel 

 General manager, restaurant 

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Department manager, production and operations/restaurant
         - 1225 

 Managing director, enterprise/hotel - 1210 

1318  GENERAL MANAGERS IN PERSONAL CARE, CLEANING AND RELATED
SERVICES 
      General managers in personal care, cleaning and related
services head  small businesses providing personal care, cleaning
and related services and,  on their own behalf or on behalf of
the proprietor, plan, direct and  coordinate the activities of
the business, with the assistance of no more than  one other
manager and some non-managerial help.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;.

(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

 General manager, cleaning 

 General manager, personal care 

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Department manager, production and operations/cleaning
         - 1228 

 Department manager, production and operations/personal
         care - 1228 

 Managing director, enterprise/cleaning - 1210 

1316  GENERAL MANAGERS IN TRANSPORT, STORAGE AND COMMUNICATIONS 
      General managers in transport, storage and communications
head small  transport, storage or communications businesses and,
on their own behalf or on  behalf of the proprietor, plan, direct
and coordinate the activities of the  business, with the
assistance of no more than one other manager and some  non-
managerial help.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;

(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 General manager, communications 

 General manager, storage General manager, transport 

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Department manager, production and
         operations/communications - 1226 

 Department manager, production and operations/storage
         - 1226 

 Managing director, enterprise/ transport - 1210 

1313  GENERAL MANAGERS IN CONSTRUCTION 
      General managers in construction head small construction
businesses and,  on their own behalf or on behalf of the
proprietor, plan, direct and  coordinate the activities of the
business, with the assistance of no more than  one other manager
and some non-managerial help.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;

(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing dally operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 General manager, construction 

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Department manager, production and
         operations/construction - 1223 

 Managing director, enterprise/construction - 1210 

1319  GENERAL MANAGERS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
      This unit group covers general managers not elsewhere
classified in Minor  group 131, General managers.

      For instance, here should be classified those who head
small businesses  in the fields of education, health, or
recreational, cultural or sporting  activities and, on their own
behalf or on behalf of the proprietor, plan,  direct and
coordinate the activities of the business, with the assistance
of no more than one other manager and some non-managerial help.

      In such cases tasks would include

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;

(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 General manager, education
 
 General manager, health
 
 General manager, recreation
 
 General manager, travel agency
 
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Dean -1229 

 Department manager, production and operations/recreation
         - 1229

 Managing director, enterprise/education - 1210 

 Managing director, enterprise/health - 1210 

1311  GENERAL MANAGERS IN AGRICULTURE, HUNTING, FORESTRY AND
FISHING 
      General managers in agriculture, hunting, forestry and
fishing head small  agricultural farms or hunting, forestry or
fishing businesses and, on their  own behalf or on behalf of the
proprietor, plan, direct and coordinate the  activities of the
business, with the assistance of no more than one other  manager
and some non-managerial help.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;

(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 General manager, agriculture 

 General manager, fishing General manager, forestry 

 General manager, hunting 

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Department manager, production and
         operations/agriculture - 1221 

 Farmer, field crop - 6111 

 Farmer, livestock - 6121 

 Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1 21 0 

1315  GENERAL MANAGERS OF RESTAURANTS AND HOTELS 
      General managers of restaurants and hotels head small
restaurant or hotel  businesses and, on their own behalf or on
behalf of the proprietor, plan,  direct and coordinate the
activities of the business, with the assistance of  no more than
one other manager and some non-managerial help.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;

(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 General manager, hotel 

 General manager, restaurant 

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Department manager, production and operations/restaurant
         - 1225 

 Managing director, enterprise/hotel - 1210 

1319  GENERAL MANAGERS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
      This unit group covers general managers not elsewhere
classified in Minor  group 131, General managers.

      For instance, here should be classified those who head
small businesses  in the fields of education, health, or
recreational, cultural or sporting  activities and, on their own
behalf or on behalf of the proprietor, plan,  direct and
coordinate the activities of the business, with the assistance
of no more than one other manager and some non-managerial help.

      In such cases tasks would include

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;

(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 General manager, education
 
 General manager, health
 
 General manager, recreation
 
 General manager, travel agency
 
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Dean -1229 

 Department manager, production and operations/recreation
         - 1229

 Managing director, enterprise/education - 1210 

 Managing director, enterprise/health - 1210 

1315  GENERAL MANAGERS OF RESTAURANTS AND HOTELS 
      General managers of restaurants and hotels head small
restaurant or hotel  businesses and, on their own behalf or on
behalf of the proprietor, plan,  direct and coordinate the
activities of the business, with the assistance of  no more than
one other manager and some non-managerial help.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;

(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 General manager, hotel 

 General manager, restaurant 

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Department manager, production and operations/restaurant
         - 1225 

 Managing director, enterprise/hotel - 1210 

1311  GENERAL MANAGERS IN AGRICULTURE, HUNTING, FORESTRY AND
FISHING 
      General managers in agriculture, hunting, forestry and
fishing head small  agricultural farms or hunting, forestry or
fishing businesses and, on their  own behalf or on behalf of the
proprietor, plan, direct and coordinate the  activities of the
business, with the assistance of no more than one other  manager
and some non-managerial help.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;

(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 General manager, agriculture 

 General manager, fishing General manager, forestry 

 General manager, hunting 

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Department manager, production and
         operations/agriculture - 1221 

 Farmer, field crop - 6111 

 Farmer, livestock - 6121 

 Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1 21 0 

1315  GENERAL MANAGERS OF RESTAURANTS AND HOTELS 
      General managers of restaurants and hotels head small
restaurant or hotel  businesses and, on their own behalf or on
behalf of the proprietor, plan,  direct and coordinate the
activities of the business, with the assistance of  no more than
one other manager and some non-managerial help.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;

(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 General manager, hotel 

 General manager, restaurant 

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Department manager, production and operations/restaurant
         - 1225 

 Managing director, enterprise/hotel - 1210 

1312  GENERAL MANAGERS IN MANUFACTURING 
      General managers in manufacturing head small manufacturing
businesses  and, on their own behalf or on behalf of the
proprietor, plan, direct and  coordinate the activities of the
business, with the assistance of no more than  one other manager
and some non-managerial help.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;

(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 General manager, manufacturing 

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Department manager, production and
         operations/manufacturing - 1222 

 Managing director, enterprise/manufacturing - 1210 

1315  GENERAL MANAGERS OF RESTAURANTS AND HOTELS 
      General managers of restaurants and hotels head small
restaurant or hotel  businesses and, on their own behalf or on
behalf of the proprietor, plan,  direct and coordinate the
activities of the business, with the assistance of  no more than
one other manager and some non-managerial help.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;

(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 General manager, hotel 

 General manager, restaurant 

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Department manager, production and operations/restaurant
         - 1225 

 Managing director, enterprise/hotel - 1210 

1318  GENERAL MANAGERS IN PERSONAL CARE, CLEANING AND RELATED
SERVICES 
      General managers in personal care, cleaning and related
services head  small businesses providing personal care, cleaning
and related services and,  on their own behalf or on behalf of
the proprietor, plan, direct and  coordinate the activities of
the business, with the assistance of no more than  one other
manager and some non-managerial help.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;.

(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

 General manager, cleaning 

 General manager, personal care 

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Department manager, production and operations/cleaning
         - 1228 

 Department manager, production and operations/personal
         care - 1228 

 Managing director, enterprise/cleaning - 1210 

1319  GENERAL MANAGERS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
      This unit group covers general managers not elsewhere
classified in Minor  group 131, General managers.

      For instance, here should be classified those who head
small businesses  in the fields of education, health, or
recreational, cultural or sporting  activities and, on their own
behalf or on behalf of the proprietor, plan,  direct and
coordinate the activities of the business, with the assistance
of no more than one other manager and some non-managerial help.

      In such cases tasks would include

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;

(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 General manager, education
 
 General manager, health
 
 General manager, recreation
 
 General manager, travel agency
 
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Dean -1229 

 Department manager, production and operations/recreation
         - 1229

 Managing director, enterprise/education - 1210 

 Managing director, enterprise/health - 1210 

1315  GENERAL MANAGERS OF RESTAURANTS AND HOTELS 
      General managers of restaurants and hotels head small
restaurant or hotel  businesses and, on their own behalf or on
behalf of the proprietor, plan,  direct and coordinate the
activities of the business, with the assistance of  no more than
one other manager and some non-managerial help.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;

(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 General manager, hotel 

 General manager, restaurant 

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Department manager, production and operations/restaurant
         - 1225 

 Managing director, enterprise/hotel - 1210 

1314  GENERAL MANAGERS IN WHOLESALE AND RETAIL TRADE 
      General managers in wholesale and retail trade head small
wholesale or  retail businesses and, on their own behalf or on
behalf of the proprietor,  plan, direct and coordinate the
activities of the business, with the  assistance of no more than
one other manager and some non-managerial help.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;


(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here':

 General manager, retail trade 

 General manager, wholesale trade 

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Department manager, production and operations/retail
         trade - 1224 

 Managing director, enterprise/wholesale trade -
         1210 

1315  GENERAL MANAGERS OF RESTAURANTS AND HOTELS 
      General managers of restaurants and hotels head small
restaurant or hotel  businesses and, on their own behalf or on
behalf of the proprietor, plan,  direct and coordinate the
activities of the business, with the assistance of  no more than
one other manager and some non-managerial help.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;

(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 General manager, hotel 

 General manager, restaurant 

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Department manager, production and operations/restaurant
         - 1225 

 Managing director, enterprise/hotel - 1210 

1319  GENERAL MANAGERS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
      This unit group covers general managers not elsewhere
classified in Minor  group 131, General managers.

      For instance, here should be classified those who head
small businesses  in the fields of education, health, or
recreational, cultural or sporting  activities and, on their own
behalf or on behalf of the proprietor, plan,  direct and
coordinate the activities of the business, with the assistance
of no more than one other manager and some non-managerial help.

      In such cases tasks would include

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;

(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 General manager, education
 
 General manager, health
 
 General manager, recreation
 
 General manager, travel agency
 
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Dean -1229 

 Department manager, production and operations/recreation
         - 1229

 Managing director, enterprise/education - 1210 

 Managing director, enterprise/health - 1210 

1316  GENERAL MANAGERS IN TRANSPORT, STORAGE AND COMMUNICATIONS 
      General managers in transport, storage and communications
head small  transport, storage or communications businesses and,
on their own behalf or on  behalf of the proprietor, plan, direct
and coordinate the activities of the  business, with the
assistance of no more than one other manager and some  non-
managerial help.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;

(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 General manager, communications 

 General manager, storage General manager, transport 

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Department manager, production and
         operations/communications - 1226 

 Department manager, production and operations/storage
         - 1226 

 Managing director, enterprise/ transport - 1210 

1319  GENERAL MANAGERS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
      This unit group covers general managers not elsewhere
classified in Minor  group 131, General managers.

      For instance, here should be classified those who head
small businesses  in the fields of education, health, or
recreational, cultural or sporting  activities and, on their own
behalf or on behalf of the proprietor, plan,  direct and
coordinate the activities of the business, with the assistance
of no more than one other manager and some non-managerial help.

      In such cases tasks would include

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;

(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 General manager, education
 
 General manager, health
 
 General manager, recreation
 
 General manager, travel agency
 
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Dean -1229 

 Department manager, production and operations/recreation
         - 1229

 Managing director, enterprise/education - 1210 

 Managing director, enterprise/health - 1210 

1314  GENERAL MANAGERS IN WHOLESALE AND RETAIL TRADE 
      General managers in wholesale and retail trade head small
wholesale or  retail businesses and, on their own behalf or on
behalf of the proprietor,  plan, direct and coordinate the
activities of the business, with the  assistance of no more than
one other manager and some non-managerial help.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;


(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here':

 General manager, retail trade 

 General manager, wholesale trade 

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Department manager, production and operations/retail
         trade - 1224 

 Managing director, enterprise/wholesale trade -
         1210 

2211  BIOLOGISTS, BOTANISTS, ZOOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Biologists, botanists, zoologists and related professionals
conduct  research, improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and  apply scientific knowledge relating to
biology, microbiology, bacteriology,  cytology, genetics,
zoology, botany and ecology, especially in the fields of 
medicine and agriculture.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   conducting field and laboratory experiments concerning all
      forms of life by identifying and classifying human, animal,
      insect or plant specimens, and studying their origin,
      development, chemical and physical form, structure,
      composition, and life and reproductive processes;

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure, development and characteristics of micro-
      organisms such as bacteria or viruses;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the factors
      involved in the origin, development and transmission of
      hereditary characteristics in human beings, animals or
      plants;

(e)   studying all forms of plant life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(f)   studying all forms of animal life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(g)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure and functions of living cells, and the influence
      of physical and chemical factors upon normal and abnormal
      cells;

(h)   studying inter-relationships of animal and plant life and
      the environmental factors involved, and giving professional
      advice to related disciplines;

(i)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bacteriologist
  Biologist
  Botanist
  Ecologist
  Microbiologist
  Zoologist

2114  GEOLOGISTS AND GEOPHYSICISTS 
     Geologists and geophysicists conduct research, improve or
develop  concepts, theories and operational methods, or apply
scientific knowledge  relating to geology and geophysics in such
fields as oil, gas and mineral  exploitation, water conservation,
civil engineering, telecommunications and  navigation.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods related to geology and
      geophysics;

(b)   studying composition and structure of the earth's crust,
      examining rocks, minerals, fossil remains, etc., to
      determine processes affecting the development of the earth,
      trace evolution of past life and establish nature and
      chronology of geological formations;

(c)   interpreting research data and preparing geological
      reports, maps, charts and diagrams;

(d)   applying results of research to assess development
      potential of mineral, gas and oil deposits and underground
      water resources;

(e)   applying geological knowledge to problems encountered in
      civil engineering projects such as the construction of
      dams, bridges, tunnels and large buildings;

(f)   investigating and measuring seismic, gravitational,
      electrical, thermal and magnetic forces affecting the
      earth;

(g)   investigating and measuring optical and acoustic phenomena
      in the atmosphere;

(h)   estimating weight, size and mass of the earth and
      composition and structure of its interior, and studying the
      nature and activity of volcanoes, glaciers and earthquakes;

(i)   charting the earth's magnetic field and applying this and
      other collected data for purposes of broadcasting and
      navigation;

(j)   studying and measuring physical properties of seas and the
      atmosphere and their inter-relationship, such as the
      exchange of thermal energy;

(k)   locating and determining the nature and extent of oil, gas
      and mineral deposits and of ground-water resources, using
      seismological, gravimetric, magnetic, electrical or
      radiometric methods;

(l)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(m)   performing related tasks;

(n)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Geologist
  Geophysicist

2442  SOCIOLOGISTS, ANTHROPOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS
 
     Sociologists, anthropologists and related professionals
investigate and  describe the social structure of societies, the
origin and evolution of  humanity, and the interdependence
between environmental conditions and human  activities, and make
the knowledge obtained available as a basis for policy 
decisions.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research on the origin, development, structure,
      social patterns, organisations and inter-relationships of
      human society;

(b)   tracing the origin and evolution of humanity through the
      study of changing characteristics and cultural and social
      institutions;

(c)   tracing the development of humanity through the material
      remains of its past, such as dwellings, temples, tools,
      pottery, coins, weapons, or sculpture;

(d)   studying physical and climatic aspects of areas and
      'regions, and correlating these findings with the economic,
      social and cultural activities;

(e)   advising on the practical application of these findings in
      the formulation of economic and social policies for
      population groups and regions, and for the development of
      markets;

(f)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Anthropologist
  Archaeologist
  Ethnologist
  Geographer
  Sociologist

2114  GEOLOGISTS AND GEOPHYSICISTS 
     Geologists and geophysicists conduct research, improve or
develop  concepts, theories and operational methods, or apply
scientific knowledge  relating to geology and geophysics in such
fields as oil, gas and mineral  exploitation, water conservation,
civil engineering, telecommunications and  navigation.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods related to geology and
      geophysics;

(b)   studying composition and structure of the earth's crust,
      examining rocks, minerals, fossil remains, etc., to
      determine processes affecting the development of the earth,
      trace evolution of past life and establish nature and
      chronology of geological formations;

(c)   interpreting research data and preparing geological
      reports, maps, charts and diagrams;

(d)   applying results of research to assess development
      potential of mineral, gas and oil deposits and underground
      water resources;

(e)   applying geological knowledge to problems encountered in
      civil engineering projects such as the construction of
      dams, bridges, tunnels and large buildings;

(f)   investigating and measuring seismic, gravitational,
      electrical, thermal and magnetic forces affecting the
      earth;

(g)   investigating and measuring optical and acoustic phenomena
      in the atmosphere;

(h)   estimating weight, size and mass of the earth and
      composition and structure of its interior, and studying the
      nature and activity of volcanoes, glaciers and earthquakes;

(i)   charting the earth's magnetic field and applying this and
      other collected data for purposes of broadcasting and
      navigation;

(j)   studying and measuring physical properties of seas and the
      atmosphere and their inter-relationship, such as the
      exchange of thermal energy;

(k)   locating and determining the nature and extent of oil, gas
      and mineral deposits and of ground-water resources, using
      seismological, gravimetric, magnetic, electrical or
      radiometric methods;

(l)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(m)   performing related tasks;

(n)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Geologist
  Geophysicist

7322  GLASS-MAKERS, CUTTERS, GRINDERS AND FINISHERS
 

     Glass-makers, cutters, grinders and finishers blow, mould,
press and roll  shapes from molten glass and cut, grind and
polish glass.

     Tasks include -

(a)  shaping molten glass by means of blowpipe, hand moulding,
     heating and bending;

(b)  heating, moulding and pressing optical glass to make lens
     blanks;

(c)  grinding and polishing lens blanks;

(d)  grinding and bevelling edges of glass;

(e)  cutting sheet glass with hand tools and sawing prisms and
     other shapes from optical glass blocks;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blower, glass
  Cutter, glass
  Finisher, glass
  Grinder, glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Furnace-operator, glass production - 8131

7135  GLAZIERS
 

     Glaziers cut, fit and set glass in windows, doors, shop
fronts and other  frames.

     Tasks include -

(a)  selecting glass panes, cutting them to measure and fixing
     them in windows, doors and partitions of buildings;

(b)  fastening glass panes in skylights;

(c)  installing flat or curved glass in shop fronts, swing-doors,
     show-cases, portholes or other openings;

(d)  cutting, assembling and installing pieces of glass in lead
     or copper framework to form decorative windows and panels;

(e)  installing ordinary or shatter-proof glass panels in
     windows, doors and windscreens of vehicles;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Glazier
  Glazier, roofing
  Glazier, vehicle

7313  JEWELLERY AND PRECIOUS-METAL WORKERS
 

     Jewellery and precious-metal workers make and repair
jewellery and  precious metalware, cut and set gems and engrave
designs on jewellery and  precious metal articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  casting jewellery and other non-ferrous metal articles by
     hand;

(b)  making complete jewellery articles such as rings, brooches
     and bracelets;

(c)  cutting and polishing gems and setting them in jewellery
     articles;

(d)  making and repairing precious metalware;

(e)  rolling and beating precious metals; engraving letters and
     designs on jewellery and precious metalware;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, jewellery
  Goldsmith
  Jeweller
  Setter, gem
  Silversmith

5131  CHILD-CARE WORKERS
 
     Child-care workers take care of employers' children and
oversee their  daily activities, or engage in helping teachers
to look after schoolchildren.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assisting children to bath, dress and feed themselves;

(b)  taking children to and from school or outdoors for
     recreation;

(c)  playing games with children, or entertaining children by
     reading or storytelling;

(d)  maintaining order in children's bedrooms and playrooms;

(e)  taking care of schoolchildren at lunch or other school
     breaks;

(f)  taking care of schoolchildren on excursions, museum visits
     and similar outings;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Governess, children
  Nanny

1110  LEGISLATORS 
      Legislators determine, formulate, and direct policies of
national, state,  regional or local governments, and make,
ratify, amend or repeal laws, public  rules and regulations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   presiding over or participating in the proceedings of
      legislative bodies and administrative councils of national,
      state, regional or local governments or legislative
      assemblies;

(b)   determining, formulating, and directing policies of
      national, state, regional or local governments;

(c)   making, ratifying, amending or repealing laws, public rules
      and regulations within the framework of a Constitution
      determining their powers and fields of jurisdiction;

(d)   serving on government administrative boards or official
      committees;

(e)   promoting the interests of the constituencies which they
      represent;

(f)   as members of the government, directing senior
      administrators and officials of government departments and
      agencies in the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Minister, government

President, government

Prime minister

Secretary, government/legislative

Senator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Secretary, government/non legislative - 1120

1120  SENIOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS 

      Senior government officials advise governments on policy
matters, oversee the interpretation and implementation of
government policies and legislation  by government departments
and agencies, represent their country abroad and act  on its
behalf, or carry out similar tasks in intergovernmental
organisations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   advising national, state, regional or local governments on
      policy matters;

(b)   advising on the preparation of government budgets, laws and
      regulations, including amendments;

(c)   overseeing the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies and legislation by government
      departments and agencies;

(d)   representing their country abroad;
         
(e)   performing similar tasks in intergovernmental
      organisations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Administrator, government
Administrator, intergovernmental organisation
Ambassador
Consul-general
Secretary, government/non legislative

1110  LEGISLATORS 
      Legislators determine, formulate, and direct policies of
national, state,  regional or local governments, and make,
ratify, amend or repeal laws, public  rules and regulations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   presiding over or participating in the proceedings of
      legislative bodies and administrative councils of national,
      state, regional or local governments or legislative
      assemblies;

(b)   determining, formulating, and directing policies of
      national, state, regional or local governments;

(c)   making, ratifying, amending or repealing laws, public rules
      and regulations within the framework of a Constitution
      determining their powers and fields of jurisdiction;

(d)   serving on government administrative boards or official
      committees;

(e)   promoting the interests of the constituencies which they
      represent;

(f)   as members of the government, directing senior
      administrators and officials of government departments and
      agencies in the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Minister, government

President, government

Prime minister

Secretary, government/legislative

Senator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Secretary, government/non legislative - 1120

7431  FIBRE PREPARERS
 

     Fibre preparers prepare wool, cotton,flax, jute, hemp and
other natural  textile fibres for spinning and winding.

     Tasks include -

(a)  grading and classifying natural textile fibres;

(b)  washing wool fibres;

(c)  cleaning and fluffing textile fibres;

(d)  forming fibres into sliver, combing them, combining sliver
     into sliver laps or forming sliver into rove;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Comber, fibre/textiles
  Drawer, fibre/textiles
  Rover, fibre/textiles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator combing/textile fibres - 8261

7415  FOOD AND BEVERAGE TASTERS AND GRADERS
 

     Food and beverage tasters and graders inspect, taste and
grade various  types of agricultural products, food and
beverages.

     Tasks include -

(a)  inspecting, testing and tasting agricultural products, food
     and beverages at various stages of processing to determine
     quality and grade into appropriate class;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, food
  Taster, food
  Taster, liquor
  Taster, wine

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

7415  FOOD AND BEVERAGE TASTERS AND GRADERS
 

     Food and beverage tasters and graders inspect, taste and
grade various  types of agricultural products, food and
beverages.

     Tasks include -

(a)  inspecting, testing and tasting agricultural products, food
     and beverages at various stages of processing to determine
     quality and grade into appropriate class;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, food
  Taster, food
  Taster, liquor
  Taster, wine

7434  FURRIERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Furriers and related workers make, alter, repair and restyle
garments and  other articles made of fur, or participate in the
manufacture of ready-to-wear  fur garments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  choosing, stretching and trimming dressed furs to conform
     to the chosen pattern outline of fur garments or other
     articles;

(b)  making coats, jackets and other fur garments and articles;

(c)  participation in the manufacture of ready-to-wear fur
     clothing;

(d)  reclaiming furs or skins from old coats, gluing fabric to
     interior of fur coats and trimming blocked fur garments;

(e)  altering, restyling and repairing fur garments and other fur
     articles;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furrier
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, sewing/fur - 8263

7441  PELT DRESSERS, TANNERS AND FELLMONGERS
 

     Pelt dressers, tanners and fellmongers prepare fur- and
wool-bearing  pelts for making garments and other products, and
make leather from hides and  skins.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sorting and grading pelts, hides and skins;

(b)  removing flesh and fat from pelts before curing;

(c)  removing flesh and hair from hides;

(d)  removing long, coarse hair from pelts and trimming
     underlying hair to even length;

(e)  operating machine to split hides edgeways;

(f)  treating hides to convert them into leather;

(g)  applying dyes to fur pelts;

(h)  dressing and applying dyes and stains to leather;

(i)  stretching and smoothing dressed pelts;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fellmonger
  Grader, pelt
  Tanner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, tanning - 8265

7415  FOOD AND BEVERAGE TASTERS AND GRADERS
 

     Food and beverage tasters and graders inspect, taste and
grade various  types of agricultural products, food and
beverages.

     Tasks include -

(a)  inspecting, testing and tasting agricultural products, food
     and beverages at various stages of processing to determine
     quality and grade into appropriate class;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, food
  Taster, food
  Taster, liquor
  Taster, wine

7441  PELT DRESSERS, TANNERS AND FELLMONGERS
 

     Pelt dressers, tanners and fellmongers prepare fur- and
wool-bearing  pelts for making garments and other products, and
make leather from hides and  skins.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sorting and grading pelts, hides and skins;

(b)  removing flesh and fat from pelts before curing;

(c)  removing flesh and hair from hides;

(d)  removing long, coarse hair from pelts and trimming
     underlying hair to even length;

(e)  operating machine to split hides edgeways;

(f)  treating hides to convert them into leather;

(g)  applying dyes to fur pelts;

(h)  dressing and applying dyes and stains to leather;

(i)  stretching and smoothing dressed pelts;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fellmonger
  Grader, pelt
  Tanner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, tanning - 8265

7113  STONE SPLITTERS, CUTTERS AND CARVERS
 



     Stone splitters, cutters and carvers break quarried stone
slabs or  blocks, or by using hand or hand-powered tools cut,
shape and finish stone for  building, ornamental, monumental and
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving wedges into quarried stone to break it into slabs
     or blocks;

(b)  selecting and grading slabs and blocks of granite, marble,
     and other stone;

(c)  cutting, shaping and finishing building and monumental stone
     such as granite or marble by using hand or hand-powered
     tools;

(d)  making patterns and marking shapes on stone for subsequent
     sawing, planing, drilling and other dressing and cutting
     operations;

(e)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     blocks used for monuments or memorials;

(f)  setting stone in the erection of monuments and memorials;

(g)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     used for decorative facings on buildings-

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carver, stone
  Cutter, stone
  Mason, monument
  Splitter, stone
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, carving/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, cutting/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, splitting/stone 8112
  Sculptor - 2452
  Stonemason, construction - 7122

7416  TOBACCO PREPARERS AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Tobacco preparers and tobacco products makers prepare
tobacco leaves and  make various tobacco products.

     Tasks  include -

(a)  grading cured tobacco leaves by type, quality and locality
     where grown;

(b)  mixing tobacco leaves according to formula to obtain a blend
     of distinct flavour;

(c)  tending vacuum container which moistens tobacco for further
     processing;

(d)  removing midribs and stalks from tobacco leaves and
     shredding tobacco;

(e)  making cigars, cigarettes, snuff and other tobacco products
     by hand or with simple machines;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, tobacco
  Maker, cigar
  Maker, cigarette
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, cigar production - 8279
  Machine-operator, cigarette production - 8279

7415  FOOD AND BEVERAGE TASTERS AND GRADERS
 

     Food and beverage tasters and graders inspect, taste and
grade various  types of agricultural products, food and
beverages.

     Tasks include -

(a)  inspecting, testing and tasting agricultural products, food
     and beverages at various stages of processing to determine
     quality and grade into appropriate class;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, food
  Taster, food
  Taster, liquor
  Taster, wine

7421  WOOD TREATERS
 

     Wood treaters season and preserve wood.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating steam-heated kilns to season wood;

(b)  treating wood with chemicals to protect it against decay or
     parasites;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Wood seasoner
  Wood treater
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, treating/wood 8141

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

7343  PRINTING ENGRAVERS AND ETCHERS
 

     Printing engravers and etchers engrave lithographic stones
and printing  plates, rollers, dies and blocks by various
processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting designs through film applied to surface of
     lithographic stones;

(b)  engraving steel and copper plates, rollers, dies or wood,
     rubber and linoleum blocks by hand;

(c)  engraving metal plates and rollers by machine;

(d)  transferring designs from lithographic stone to metal
     plates;

(e)  performing all or several tasks in preparing printing plates
     by photogravure process;

(f)  etching metal plates or rollers with acid and retouching;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Engraver, printing/lithographic stone
  Engraver, printing/metal plate
  Etcher, printing/metal plate
  Photo-engraver
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Designer, graphic - 3471

2444  PHILOLOGISTS, TRANSLATORS AND INTERPRETERS 
     Philologists, translators and interpreters study the origin,
development  and structure of languages, and translate or
interpret from one language into  another.

     Tasks include -

(a)   studying relationships between ancient parent languages and
      modern language groups, tracing the origin and evolution
of
      words, grammar and language forms, and presenting findings;

(b)   advising on or preparing language classification systems,
      grammars, dictionaries and similar materials;

(c)   translating from one language into another and ensuring
      that the correct meaning of the original is retained, that
      legal, technical or scientific works are correctly
      rendered, and that the phraseology and terminology of the
      spirit and style of literary works are conveyed as far as
      possible;

(d)   develop methods for the use of computers and other
      instruments to improve productivity and quality of
      translations;

(e)   interpreting from one language into another, in particular
      at conferences, meetings and similar occasions, and
      ensuring that the correct meaning and, as far as possible,
      the spirit of the original are transmitted;

(f)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Interpreter
  Lexicographer
   Philologist
  Translator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Editor - 2451

6121  DAIRY AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS
 
     Dairy and livestock producers plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed,  raise and tend livestock such
as cattle, sheep, pigs, goats,  horses, dogs or cats to be used
as working, sporting, or pet animals, as well  as for meat, milk,
hair, hides and other products, for sale or delivery on a 
regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of livestock and livestock
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing animals, producing and purchasing fodder and
     other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in grazing land, buildings, equipment
     and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending livestock;

(e)  milking animals and shearing sheep;

(f)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market;

(g)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(h)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(i)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, cat
  Breeder, dog
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock
  Farmer, dairy
  Farmer, horse raising
  Farmer, livestock
  Farmer, sheep
  Farmer, sheep/astrakhan
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6113  GARDENERS, HORTICULTURAL AND NURSERY GROWERS
 
     Gardeners, horticultural and nursery growers plan and carry
out the  necessary operations to grow vegetables by intensive
cultivation techniques,  to cultivate trees, shrubs, flowers and
other plants, and to produce saplings,  bulbs and seeds, for sale
or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers,  marketing
organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of vegetables, horticultural
     and nursery products to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, bulbs, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery-

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     growing vegetables by intensive cultivation, cultivating
     flowers, trees or bushes and harvesting crops;

(e)  producing saplings, bulbs and seeds;

(f)  cultivating flowers, trees, shrubs and other plants in parks
     or public or private gardens;

(g)  growing plants for exhibition or medicinal purposes;

(h)  delivering or marketing products;

(i)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(j)  tending working animals and maintaining buildings, machinery
     and equipment;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Cultivator, mushroom
  Farm worker, skilled/nursery
  Gardener
  Grower, horticultural nursery
  Horticultural grower
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

7412  BAKERS, PASTRY-COOKS AND CONFECTIONERY MAKERS
 

     Bakers, pastry-cooks and confectionery makers make various
kinds of  bread, cakes, and other flour products, as well as
handmade chocolate and  sugar confectionery.

     Tasks include  -

(a)  making bread, cakes, biscuits, pastries, pies and other
     flour products;

(b)  making handmade confectionery from mixtures of sugar,
     chocolate and other ingredients with the help of tools and
     some machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Baker
  Confectioner
  Maker, chocolate
 Pastry-cook
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cook - 5122
  Machine-operator, bakery products 8274
  Machine-operator, bread production 8274
  Machine-operator, chocolate production - 8274

7322  GLASS-MAKERS, CUTTERS, GRINDERS AND FINISHERS
 

     Glass-makers, cutters, grinders and finishers blow, mould,
press and roll  shapes from molten glass and cut, grind and
polish glass.

     Tasks include -

(a)  shaping molten glass by means of blowpipe, hand moulding,
     heating and bending;

(b)  heating, moulding and pressing optical glass to make lens
     blanks;

(c)  grinding and polishing lens blanks;

(d)  grinding and bevelling edges of glass;

(e)  cutting sheet glass with hand tools and sawing prisms and
     other shapes from optical glass blocks;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blower, glass
  Cutter, glass
  Finisher, glass
  Grinder, glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Furnace-operator, glass production - 8131

7224  METAL WHEEL-GRINDERS, POLISHERS AND TOOL SHARPENERS
 

     Metal wheel-grinders, polishers and tool sharpeners grind
and polish  metal surfaces and sharpen tools.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating fixed or portable buffing and polishing machines;

(b)  sharpening cutting tools and instruments using grinding
     wheel or mechanically operated grinding machines;

(c)  repairing, adjusting and sharpening saw blades and metal
     teeth of cylinders in textile carding machines;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Finisher, metal
  Grinder, tool
  Polisher, metal
  Sharpener, knife
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal - 8223
  Machine-operator polishing/metal -8223

7113  STONE SPLITTERS, CUTTERS AND CARVERS
 



     Stone splitters, cutters and carvers break quarried stone
slabs or  blocks, or by using hand or hand-powered tools cut,
shape and finish stone for  building, ornamental, monumental and
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving wedges into quarried stone to break it into slabs
     or blocks;

(b)  selecting and grading slabs and blocks of granite, marble,
     and other stone;

(c)  cutting, shaping and finishing building and monumental stone
     such as granite or marble by using hand or hand-powered
     tools;

(d)  making patterns and marking shapes on stone for subsequent
     sawing, planing, drilling and other dressing and cutting
     operations;

(e)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     blocks used for monuments or memorials;

(f)  setting stone in the erection of monuments and memorials;

(g)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     used for decorative facings on buildings-

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carver, stone
  Cutter, stone
  Mason, monument
  Splitter, stone
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, carving/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, cutting/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, splitting/stone 8112
  Sculptor - 2452
  Stonemason, construction - 7122

7416  TOBACCO PREPARERS AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Tobacco preparers and tobacco products makers prepare
tobacco leaves and  make various tobacco products.

     Tasks  include -

(a)  grading cured tobacco leaves by type, quality and locality
     where grown;

(b)  mixing tobacco leaves according to formula to obtain a blend
     of distinct flavour;

(c)  tending vacuum container which moistens tobacco for further
     processing;

(d)  removing midribs and stalks from tobacco leaves and
     shredding tobacco;

(e)  making cigars, cigarettes, snuff and other tobacco products
     by hand or with simple machines;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, tobacco
  Maker, cigar
  Maker, cigarette
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, cigar production - 8279
  Machine-operator, cigarette production - 8279

7113  STONE SPLITTERS, CUTTERS AND CARVERS
 



     Stone splitters, cutters and carvers break quarried stone
slabs or  blocks, or by using hand or hand-powered tools cut,
shape and finish stone for  building, ornamental, monumental and
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving wedges into quarried stone to break it into slabs
     or blocks;

(b)  selecting and grading slabs and blocks of granite, marble,
     and other stone;

(c)  cutting, shaping and finishing building and monumental stone
     such as granite or marble by using hand or hand-powered
     tools;

(d)  making patterns and marking shapes on stone for subsequent
     sawing, planing, drilling and other dressing and cutting
     operations;

(e)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     blocks used for monuments or memorials;

(f)  setting stone in the erection of monuments and memorials;

(g)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     used for decorative facings on buildings-

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carver, stone
  Cutter, stone
  Mason, monument
  Splitter, stone
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, carving/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, cutting/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, splitting/stone 8112
  Sculptor - 2452
  Stonemason, construction - 7122

7224  METAL WHEEL-GRINDERS, POLISHERS AND TOOL SHARPENERS
 

     Metal wheel-grinders, polishers and tool sharpeners grind
and polish  metal surfaces and sharpen tools.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating fixed or portable buffing and polishing machines;

(b)  sharpening cutting tools and instruments using grinding
     wheel or mechanically operated grinding machines;

(c)  repairing, adjusting and sharpening saw blades and metal
     teeth of cylinders in textile carding machines;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Finisher, metal
  Grinder, tool
  Polisher, metal
  Sharpener, knife
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal - 8223
  Machine-operator polishing/metal -8223

9211  FARM-HANDS AND LABOURERS
 

     Farm-hands and labourers help with farm work by performing
a variety of  simple farming tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging and shovelling to clear ditches or for other
     purposes;

(b)  loading, unloading various crops and other materials;

(c)  raking, pitching and stacking hay;

(d)  watering and weeding;

(e)  picking fruit, vegetables and various plants;

(f)  helping with planting, harvesting and general farmwork;

(g)  feeding, watering, and cleaning animals and keeping their
     quarters clean;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, farm
  Picker, fruit
Some related occupations classified else where:
  Shepherd - 6121
  Farm worker, skilled/field crops - 6111
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock - 6121

6113  GARDENERS, HORTICULTURAL AND NURSERY GROWERS
 
     Gardeners, horticultural and nursery growers plan and carry
out the  necessary operations to grow vegetables by intensive
cultivation techniques,  to cultivate trees, shrubs, flowers and
other plants, and to produce saplings,  bulbs and seeds, for sale
or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers,  marketing
organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of vegetables, horticultural
     and nursery products to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, bulbs, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery-

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     growing vegetables by intensive cultivation, cultivating
     flowers, trees or bushes and harvesting crops;

(e)  producing saplings, bulbs and seeds;

(f)  cultivating flowers, trees, shrubs and other plants in parks
     or public or private gardens;

(g)  growing plants for exhibition or medicinal purposes;

(h)  delivering or marketing products;

(i)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(j)  tending working animals and maintaining buildings, machinery
     and equipment;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Cultivator, mushroom
  Farm worker, skilled/nursery
  Gardener
  Grower, horticultural nursery
  Horticultural grower
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6113  GARDENERS, HORTICULTURAL AND NURSERY GROWERS
 
     Gardeners, horticultural and nursery growers plan and carry
out the  necessary operations to grow vegetables by intensive
cultivation techniques,  to cultivate trees, shrubs, flowers and
other plants, and to produce saplings,  bulbs and seeds, for sale
or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers,  marketing
organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of vegetables, horticultural
     and nursery products to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, bulbs, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery-

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     growing vegetables by intensive cultivation, cultivating
     flowers, trees or bushes and harvesting crops;

(e)  producing saplings, bulbs and seeds;

(f)  cultivating flowers, trees, shrubs and other plants in parks
     or public or private gardens;

(g)  growing plants for exhibition or medicinal purposes;

(h)  delivering or marketing products;

(i)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(j)  tending working animals and maintaining buildings, machinery
     and equipment;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Cultivator, mushroom
  Farm worker, skilled/nursery
  Gardener
  Grower, horticultural nursery
  Horticultural grower
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6113  GARDENERS, HORTICULTURAL AND NURSERY GROWERS
 
     Gardeners, horticultural and nursery growers plan and carry
out the  necessary operations to grow vegetables by intensive
cultivation techniques,  to cultivate trees, shrubs, flowers and
other plants, and to produce saplings,  bulbs and seeds, for sale
or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers,  marketing
organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of vegetables, horticultural
     and nursery products to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, bulbs, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery-

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     growing vegetables by intensive cultivation, cultivating
     flowers, trees or bushes and harvesting crops;

(e)  producing saplings, bulbs and seeds;

(f)  cultivating flowers, trees, shrubs and other plants in parks
     or public or private gardens;

(g)  growing plants for exhibition or medicinal purposes;

(h)  delivering or marketing products;

(i)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(j)  tending working animals and maintaining buildings, machinery
     and equipment;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Cultivator, mushroom
  Farm worker, skilled/nursery
  Gardener
  Grower, horticultural nursery
  Horticultural grower
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

9152  DOORKEEPERS, WATCHPERSONS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Doorkeepers, watchpersons and related workers undertake
doorkeeping  duties in apartment houses and other buildings,
attend parking places, watch  houses and other properties to
prevent illegal entry or theft and detect fire  or other hazards,
collect tickets, or perform ushering duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  doorkeeping in hotels and helping guests, especially on
     their arrival and departure, with luggage, keys, or
     information about directions, etc. ;

(b)  doorkeeping in apartment houses and other buildings,
     checking the right-of-entry of callers and giving them
     requested information;

(c)  watching houses and other properties to prevent illegal
     entry or theft, fire or other hazards;

(d)  ushering people into courtrooms, sporting places and similar
     
     establishments;

(e)  collecting tickets in cinemas, theatres, circuses and
     related places;

(f)  taking charge of cloakrooms or lavatories in public places;

(g)  attending parking places;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Attendant, cloakroom
  Collector, ticket
  Concierge, hotel desk
  Doorkeeper
  Guard, museum
  Porter, hotel
  Watchman
  Watchwoman
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Bodyguard - 5169
  Concierge, building - 9141
  Game-warden - 5169
  Patrolman, security - 5169
  Patrolwoman security - 5169
  Porter, luggage - 9151

5169  PROTECTIVE SERVICES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers protective services workers not
classified  elsewhere in Minor group 516, Protective services
workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who patrol
buildings and  areas to prevent illegal entry, theft, violence
and other unlawful acts, and  who, if necessary, use force to
prevent such acts and apprehend perpetrators,  as well as those
who act as bodyguards, life-guards or game-wardens.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  patrolling buildings and areas to prevent theft, violence,
     infractions of rules or other irregularities;

(b)  if necessary, exercising the right to use force and to 
     apprehend.perpetrators;

(c)  performing the duties of a bodyguard;

(d)  patrolling beaches and swimming pools to prevent accidents
     and to rescue bathers from drowning;

(e)  patrolling natural reserves, game parks, forest areas and
     enclosures to prevent theft and killing of game;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Bodyguard
  Game-warden
  Life-guard
  Patrolman, security
  Patrolwoman, security
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Doorkeeper - 91 52
  Guard, museum - 9152
  Watchman - 9152
  Watchwoman - 9152

8312  RAILWAY BRAKERS, SIGNALLERS AND SHUNTERS
 

     Railway brakers, signallers and shunters take charge of and
safeguard  railway freight trains during runs, control the
movement of railway traffic by  operating signals, switch rolling
stock and make up trains in railway yards,  make up trains for
hauling in mines and control their movement.

     Tasks include -

(a)  taking charge of and safeguarding freight train during run;

(b)  controlling flow of railway traffic over section of line by
     operating signals and switches from control panel or signal
     box;

(c)  switching and coupling rolling stock in railway yards and
     sidings in accordance with orders about loading, unloading
     and make-up of trains;

(d)  making up trains for hauling by locomotive or cable and
     directing their movement along haulageways in a mine or
     quarry;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Braker, railway
  Shunter, railway
  Signaller, railway

9152  DOORKEEPERS, WATCHPERSONS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Doorkeepers, watchpersons and related workers undertake
doorkeeping  duties in apartment houses and other buildings,
attend parking places, watch  houses and other properties to
prevent illegal entry or theft and detect fire  or other hazards,
collect tickets, or perform ushering duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  doorkeeping in hotels and helping guests, especially on
     their arrival and departure, with luggage, keys, or
     information about directions, etc. ;

(b)  doorkeeping in apartment houses and other buildings,
     checking the right-of-entry of callers and giving them
     requested information;

(c)  watching houses and other properties to prevent illegal
     entry or theft, fire or other hazards;

(d)  ushering people into courtrooms, sporting places and similar
     
     establishments;

(e)  collecting tickets in cinemas, theatres, circuses and
     related places;

(f)  taking charge of cloakrooms or lavatories in public places;

(g)  attending parking places;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Attendant, cloakroom
  Collector, ticket
  Concierge, hotel desk
  Doorkeeper
  Guard, museum
  Porter, hotel
  Watchman
  Watchwoman
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Bodyguard - 5169
  Concierge, building - 9141
  Game-warden - 5169
  Patrolman, security - 5169
  Patrolwoman security - 5169
  Porter, luggage - 9151

5162  POLICE OFFICERS
 
     Police officers maintain law and order and enforce laws and
regulations.

     Tasks include -

(a)  maintaining law and order;

(b)  protecting persons and property from hazards and unlawful
     acts;

(c)  arresting persons for contraventions of the law;

(d)  directing traffic and assuming authority in the event of
     accidents;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Constable
  Patrolman, police
  Patrolwoman, police
  Police officer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Chief Constable, police - 1120
  Commissioner, police - 1120
  Inspector-general, police - 1120

5163  PRISON GUARDS
 
     Prison guards watch over and maintain discipline among
inmates of  prisons, reformatories or penitentiaries.


Tasks include -

(a)  searching arriving prisoners, putting their valuables in
     safekeeping, escorting prisoners to cells and locking them
     in;

(b)  making periodic inspection tours of cells;

(c)  supervising prisoners at work, meals, or during walks and
     patrolling prison areas to prevent escape;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Guard, prison

5112  TRANSPORT CONDUCTORS
 
     Transport conductors collect or issue tickets and take care
of safety and  comfort on trains, trams, buses and other public
transport vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  collecting or issuing tickets, passes or fares, or checking
     the validity of ticket& issued previously;

(b)  taking care of sleeping-car on a passenger train, including
     the checking of passengers' tickets, their safety and
     information requests:

(c)  ensuring that safety regulations are respected:

(d)  giving information to passengers, especially about stops and
     connections;

(e)  cooperating with the driver in maintaining time schedules;

(f)  taking appropriate action in case of emergencies or
     accidents;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Conductor, bus
  Conductor, cable car
  Conductor, train
  Conductor, tram

5169  PROTECTIVE SERVICES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers protective services workers not
classified  elsewhere in Minor group 516, Protective services
workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who patrol
buildings and  areas to prevent illegal entry, theft, violence
and other unlawful acts, and  who, if necessary, use force to
prevent such acts and apprehend perpetrators,  as well as those
who act as bodyguards, life-guards or game-wardens.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  patrolling buildings and areas to prevent theft, violence,
     infractions of rules or other irregularities;

(b)  if necessary, exercising the right to use force and to 
     apprehend.perpetrators;

(c)  performing the duties of a bodyguard;

(d)  patrolling beaches and swimming pools to prevent accidents
     and to rescue bathers from drowning;

(e)  patrolling natural reserves, game parks, forest areas and
     enclosures to prevent theft and killing of game;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Bodyguard
  Game-warden
  Life-guard
  Patrolman, security
  Patrolwoman, security
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Doorkeeper - 91 52
  Guard, museum - 9152
  Watchman - 9152
  Watchwoman - 9152

5113  TRAVEL GUIDES

 
     Travel guides accompany individuals or groups on sightseeing
tours or  excursions, describe points of interest and provide
other guide services.

     Tasks include -

(a)  escorting tourists and looking after their comfort;

(b)  accompanying tourists on sightseeing tours and describing
     points of interest;

(c)  accompanying tourists to museums and exhibitions and giving
     information on exhibits;

(d)  guiding groups through factories and similar establishments
     and giving relevant information;

(e)  conducting excursions such as mountain climbing, hunting or
     fishing;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Guide, art gallery
  Guide, travel
  Guide, travel/game park
  Guide, travel/safari
  Guide, travel/sightseeing

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

7222  TOOL-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Tool-makers and related workers make and repair tools,
sports guns,  locks, dies, patterns and other metal articles, as
well as make engines or  machinery components, and parts thereof,
using hand and machine tools to work  metal to fine tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, maintaining and repairing dies, jigs, gauges and
     fixtures, using hand tools and various kinds of machine
     tools;

(b)  making engines or machinery components, and parts thereof;

(c)  fitting and assembling parts to make and repair jigs,
     fixtures and gauges;

(d)  repairing and modifying sports guns and other small arms;

(e)  making, fitting, assembling, repairing and installing lock
     parts and locks;

(f)  making and repairing metal patterns for preparation of
     foundry moulds;

(g)  laying out lines and reference points on metal stock to
     guide other workers who cut, turn, mill, grind or otherwise
     shape metal;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Gunsmith
  Locksmith
  Toolmaker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator tool production - 8211

3226  PHYSIOTHERAPISTS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Physiotherapists and related associate professionals treat
disorders of  bones, muscles and parts of the circulatory or the
nervous system by  manipulative methods, and ultrasound, heating,
laser or similar techniques, or  apply physiotherapy and related
therapies as part of the treatment for the physically disabled,
mentally ill or unbalanced.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising communities and individuals on correct body
      postures, for work or otherwise, to avoid injuries and
      strain and to strengthen muscles;


(b)   conducting examinations to make diagnoses of disorders of
      bones, muscles and parts of the circulatory or the nervous
      system to determine proper treatment or refer to Medical
      doctors, if necessary;

(c)   treating disorders of bones, muscles and parts of the
      circulatory or the nervous system by manipulative methods,
      and the use of ultrasound, heating, laser or similar
      techniques;

(d)   massaging client or patient to improve circulation, soothe
      or stimulate nerves, facilitate elimination of waste
      matter, stretch contracted tendons and produce other
      therapeutic effects;

(e)   examining body deformities and disorders to determine and
      write specifications for artificial limbs or other
      appliances, helping to fit them and explaining their use;

(f)   applying physiotherapy and related techniques as part of
      the treatment of the mentally ill or unbalanced;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Chiropractor
  Physiotherapist
  Podiatrist

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Therapist, occupational - 3229

2221  MEDICAL DOCTORS 
     Medical doctors conduct research, improve or develop
concepts, theories  and operational methods, and apply preventive
or curative measures.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research into human disorders and illnesses and
      preventive or curative methods;

(b)   conducting medical examinations and making diagnoses;

(c)   prescribing and giving treatment for diagnosed illnesses,
      disorders or injuries;

(d)   giving specialised medical or surgical treatment for
      particular types of illnesses, disorders or injuries;

(e)   giving advice on and applying preventive medicine methods
      and treatments;

(f)   participating in the development and implementation of
      public health laws and regulations for safeguarding and
      promoting the health of a community;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Doctor, medical
  Ophthalmologist
  Physician
  Psychiatrist
  Surgeon

5141  HAIRDRESSERS, BARBERS, BEAUTICIANS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Hairdressers, barbers, beauticians and related workers cut
and dress  hair, shave and trim beards, give beauty treatment,
apply cosmetics and  make-up and give other kinds of treatment
to individuals in order to improve their appearance.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting, washing, tinting and waving hair;

(b)  cutting and washing hair and shaving or trimming beards;

(c)  giving scalp treatment;

(d)  fitting wigs according to customers' requirements;

(e)  cleaning and applying creams, lotions and related products
     to face and parts of body;

(f)  giving facial and body massage;

(g)  applying make-up to clients of a beauty parlour;

(h)  applying make-up to actors and other performers;

(i)  cleaning, shaping and polishing finger and toe-nails and
     treating minor ailments of the human foot such as corns,
     calluses or deformed toe-nails;

(j)  attending to clients taking baths and administering
     elementary massage;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Attendant, bath
  Barber
  Beautician
  Chiropodist
  Hairdresser
  Manicurist

7221  BLACKSMITHS, HAMMER-SMITHS AND FORGING-PRESS WORKERS
 

     Blacksmiths, hammer-smiths and forging-press workers draw
wire, hammer  and forge bars, rods, ingots and plates of iron,
steel or other metals to make  and repair various kinds of tools,
metal articles, pieces of equipment,  agricultural and related
implements.

     Tasks include -

(a)  heating metal in forge furnace and manufacturing and
     repairing articles by drawing, bending, cutting, hammering
     metal on an anvil, punching, shearing, joining and hardening
     or tempering;

(b)  shaping heated metal into forgings on power hammer equipped
     with open dies;

(c)  operating closed-die drop hammer to forge metal articles;

(d)  operating a power-press machine equipped with closed dies
to
     forge metal articles;

(e)  drawing wire;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blacksmith
  Drop-hammer worker
  Forging-press worker
  Hammer-smith
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, casting/metal - 8122
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

7313  JEWELLERY AND PRECIOUS-METAL WORKERS
 

     Jewellery and precious-metal workers make and repair
jewellery and  precious metalware, cut and set gems and engrave
designs on jewellery and  precious metal articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  casting jewellery and other non-ferrous metal articles by
     hand;

(b)  making complete jewellery articles such as rings, brooches
     and bracelets;

(c)  cutting and polishing gems and setting them in jewellery
     articles;

(d)  making and repairing precious metalware;

(e)  rolling and beating precious metals; engraving letters and
     designs on jewellery and precious metalware;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, jewellery
  Goldsmith
  Jeweller
  Setter, gem
  Silversmith

8340  SHIPS' DECK CREWS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Ship's deck crews and related workers carry out deck duties
on board ship  and similar duties on board other water-borne
craft.

     Tasks include -

(a)  standing look-out watches at sea and when entering or
     leaving harbour or other narrow waters'.
(b)  steering ship according to instructions;

(c)  handling mooring lines on board;

(d)  maintaining and, in some cases, operating ship's equipment,
     cargo gear, rigging, life-saving and fire-fighting
     appliances;

(e)  performing deck and hull cleaning, scraping, painting and
     other maintenance duties as required;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Boatswain
  Sailor
  Seaman, able
  Seawoman, able

9322  HAND PACKERS AND OTHER MANUFACTURING LABOURERS
 

     Hand packers and other manufacturing labourers pack
materials or products  by hand and perform a variety of simple
routine tasks connected with  manufacturing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  packing materials or products by hand in boxes, bags,
     cartons, crates, kegs and other containers for shipment or
     storage;

(b)  moving, lifting, carrying, loading, unloading or washing raw
     materials or products, in various manufacturing  industries
     or repair and maintenance establishments;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, manufacturing
  Packer, hand
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, labelling - 8290
  Machine-operator, packing - 8290

8340  SHIPS' DECK CREWS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Ship's deck crews and related workers carry out deck duties
on board ship  and similar duties on board other water-borne
craft.

     Tasks include -

(a)  standing look-out watches at sea and when entering or
     leaving harbour or other narrow waters'.
(b)  steering ship according to instructions;

(c)  handling mooring lines on board;

(d)  maintaining and, in some cases, operating ship's equipment,
     cargo gear, rigging, life-saving and fire-fighting
     appliances;

(e)  performing deck and hull cleaning, scraping, painting and
     other maintenance duties as required;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Boatswain
  Sailor
  Seaman, able
  Seawoman, able

9211  FARM-HANDS AND LABOURERS
 

     Farm-hands and labourers help with farm work by performing
a variety of  simple farming tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging and shovelling to clear ditches or for other
     purposes;

(b)  loading, unloading various crops and other materials;

(c)  raking, pitching and stacking hay;

(d)  watering and weeding;

(e)  picking fruit, vegetables and various plants;

(f)  helping with planting, harvesting and general farmwork;

(g)  feeding, watering, and cleaning animals and keeping their
     quarters clean;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, farm
  Picker, fruit
Some related occupations classified else where:
  Shepherd - 6121
  Farm worker, skilled/field crops - 6111
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock - 6121

9132  HELPERS AND CLEANERS IN OFFICES, HOTELS AND OTHER ESTABLISHMENTS
 

     Helpers and cleaners in offices, hotels and other
establishments perform  various cleaning tasks in order to keep
clean and tidy the interiors and  fixtures of hotels, offices and
other establishments, as well as of aircraft,  trains, buses and
similar vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sweeping or vacuum-cleaning, washing and polishing floors,
     furniture and other fixtures in buildings, coaches, buses,
     trams, trains and aircraft;

(b)  making beds, cleaning bathrooms, supplying towels, soap and
     related items;

(c)  cleaning kitchens and generally helping with kitchen work,
     including dishwashing ;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cleaner,  aircraft
  Cleaner, hotel
  Cleaner, office
  Washer, hand/dishes
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Caretaker, building - 9141
  Cleaner, domestic - 9131
  Housekeeper - 5121
  Sweeper, street - 9162

9211  FARM-HANDS AND LABOURERS
 

     Farm-hands and labourers help with farm work by performing
a variety of  simple farming tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging and shovelling to clear ditches or for other
     purposes;

(b)  loading, unloading various crops and other materials;

(c)  raking, pitching and stacking hay;

(d)  watering and weeding;

(e)  picking fruit, vegetables and various plants;

(f)  helping with planting, harvesting and general farmwork;

(g)  feeding, watering, and cleaning animals and keeping their
     quarters clean;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, farm
  Picker, fruit
Some related occupations classified else where:
  Shepherd - 6121
  Farm worker, skilled/field crops - 6111
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock - 6121

9322  HAND PACKERS AND OTHER MANUFACTURING LABOURERS
 

     Hand packers and other manufacturing labourers pack
materials or products  by hand and perform a variety of simple
routine tasks connected with  manufacturing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  packing materials or products by hand in boxes, bags,
     cartons, crates, kegs and other containers for shipment or
     storage;

(b)  moving, lifting, carrying, loading, unloading or washing raw
     materials or products, in various manufacturing  industries
     or repair and maintenance establishments;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, manufacturing
  Packer, hand
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, labelling - 8290
  Machine-operator, packing - 8290

7331  HANDICRAFT WORKERS IN WOOD AND RELATED MATERIALS
 

     Handicraft workers in wood and related materials apply
traditional  techniques to prepare wood, straw, rattan, reeds,
stone, clay, shells, and  other materials, and carve, mould,
assemble, weave, or paint and decorate  various articles for
personal or household use, or for decorative purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing wood, straw, rattan, reeds, stone, shells, or
     similar materials;

(b)  carving, assembling, weaving, painting and decorating
     various articles for personal or household use such as salad
     bowls, serving-spoons, cutting-boards, trays, vases, jugs,
     baskets, straw hats, straw mats and similar objects;

(c)  carving, assembling, weaving and painting various decorative
     articles such as statues and other sculptures, chess pieces,
     jewellery, and similar objects;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Handicraft worker, reed weaving
  Handicraft worker, stone articles
  Handicraft worker, wooden articles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Maker, brush - 7424
   Machine-operator, carving/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, wood products -8240

7332  HANDICRAFT WORKERS IN TEXTILE, LEATHER AND RELATED MATERIALS
 

     Handicraft workers in textile, leather and related materials
apply  traditional techniques and patterns to produce woven
fabrics, knit-

ted, embroidered, woven and other garments and articles for
household use, as  well as traditional footwear, handbags, belts
and other accessories.

     Tasks include -

(a)  spinning and dyeing with natural dyestuffs, wool, cotton and
     other fibres;

(b)  lace-making and weaving, knitting, or embroidering various
     garments and articles for household use;

(c)  preparing and dyeing hides with natural dyestuffs and making
     traditional footwear or handbags, belts and other
     accessories;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Handicraft worker, carpets
  Handicraft worker, leather
  Handicraft worker, textiles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, weaving/fabrics 8262
  Weaver, cloth - 7432

7331  HANDICRAFT WORKERS IN WOOD AND RELATED MATERIALS
 

     Handicraft workers in wood and related materials apply
traditional  techniques to prepare wood, straw, rattan, reeds,
stone, clay, shells, and  other materials, and carve, mould,
assemble, weave, or paint and decorate  various articles for
personal or household use, or for decorative purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing wood, straw, rattan, reeds, stone, shells, or
     similar materials;

(b)  carving, assembling, weaving, painting and decorating
     various articles for personal or household use such as salad
     bowls, serving-spoons, cutting-boards, trays, vases, jugs,
     baskets, straw hats, straw mats and similar objects;

(c)  carving, assembling, weaving and painting various decorative
     articles such as statues and other sculptures, chess pieces,
     jewellery, and similar objects;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Handicraft worker, reed weaving
  Handicraft worker, stone articles
  Handicraft worker, wooden articles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Maker, brush - 7424
   Machine-operator, carving/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, wood products -8240

7332  HANDICRAFT WORKERS IN TEXTILE, LEATHER AND RELATED MATERIALS
 

     Handicraft workers in textile, leather and related materials
apply  traditional techniques and patterns to produce woven
fabrics, knit-

ted, embroidered, woven and other garments and articles for
household use, as  well as traditional footwear, handbags, belts
and other accessories.

     Tasks include -

(a)  spinning and dyeing with natural dyestuffs, wool, cotton and
     other fibres;

(b)  lace-making and weaving, knitting, or embroidering various
     garments and articles for household use;

(c)  preparing and dyeing hides with natural dyestuffs and making
     traditional footwear or handbags, belts and other
     accessories;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Handicraft worker, carpets
  Handicraft worker, leather
  Handicraft worker, textiles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, weaving/fabrics 8262
  Weaver, cloth - 7432

7331  HANDICRAFT WORKERS IN WOOD AND RELATED MATERIALS
 

     Handicraft workers in wood and related materials apply
traditional  techniques to prepare wood, straw, rattan, reeds,
stone, clay, shells, and  other materials, and carve, mould,
assemble, weave, or paint and decorate  various articles for
personal or household use, or for decorative purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing wood, straw, rattan, reeds, stone, shells, or
     similar materials;

(b)  carving, assembling, weaving, painting and decorating
     various articles for personal or household use such as salad
     bowls, serving-spoons, cutting-boards, trays, vases, jugs,
     baskets, straw hats, straw mats and similar objects;

(c)  carving, assembling, weaving and painting various decorative
     articles such as statues and other sculptures, chess pieces,
     jewellery, and similar objects;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Handicraft worker, reed weaving
  Handicraft worker, stone articles
  Handicraft worker, wooden articles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Maker, brush - 7424
   Machine-operator, carving/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, wood products -8240

9333  FREIGHT HANDLERS
 

     Freight handlers carry out tasks such as packing, carrying,
loading and  unloading furniture and other household items, or
loading and unloading ship  and aircraft cargoes and other
freight, or carrying and stacking goods in  various warehouses.

     Tasks include -

(a)  packing office or household furniture, machines, appliances
     and related goods to be transported from one place to
     another;

(b)  carrying goods to be loaded on or unloaded from vans,
     trucks, wagons, ships, or aircraft;

(c)  loading and unloading grain, coal, sand and similar goods
     by placing them on conveyor-belts, pipes, etc. ;

(d)  connecting hoses between main shore installation pipes and
     tanks of barges, tankers and other ships to load and unload
     petroleum, liquefied gases and other liquids;

(e)  carrying and stacking goods in warehouses and similar
     establishments;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Handler, freight
Some related occupations classified else where:
  Operator, crane - 8333
  Operator, truck/lifting - 8334

7321  ABRASIVE WHEEL FORMERS, POTTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Abrasive wheel formers, potters and related workers make
pottery,  porcelain ware, bricks, tiles and abrasive wheels.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making articles of pottery and porcelain;

(b)  making clay or plaster-of-Paris moulds;

(c)  forming articles on potter's wheel with hands, or using
     interior or exterior moulding shapes and shaping tools;

(d)  forming articles by casting semi-liquid clay in plaster-of-
     Paris moulds;

(e)  forming bricks and tiles into special shapes by hand;

(f)  making articles by pressing plastic clay into moulds by
     hand;

(g)  operating screw-press or hydraulic press to make products
     from clay dust;

(h)  operating a machine which extrudes moist clay for further
     processing;

(i)  forming abrasive wheels by moulding and pressing abrasive
     mixture;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Caster, pottery and porcelain
  Modeller, pottery and porcelain
  Potter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln operator, brick and tile - 8131
  Kiln operator, pottery and porcelain 8131

9313  BUILDING CONSTRUCTION LABOURERS
 

     Building construction labourers perform simple and routine
tasks in  connection with various aspects of building
construction

     Tasks include -

(a)  cleaning used building bricks and doing other simple work
     on demolition sites;

(b)  clearing various obstructions as instructed;

(c)  carrying bricks and mortar to bricklayer on construction
     site;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, construction/buildings work
  Labourer, demolition
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Bricklayer, construction - 7122
  Builder, house/traditional materials - 7121
  Demolition worker - 7129

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

6154  HUNTERS AND TRAPPERS
 
     Hunters and trappers catch and kill mammals, birds or
reptiles mainly for  meat, skin, feathers and other products, for
sale or delivery on a regular  basis to wholesale buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting traps to catch mammals, birds or reptiles;

(b)  killing trapped or free mammals, birds or reptiles with
     firearms or other weapons;

(c)  skinning and otherwise treating killed mammals, birds or
     reptiles to obtain desired products for sale or delivery.

(d)  delivering or selling trapped live mammals, birds or
     reptiles-,

(e)  repairing and maintaining equipment.

(f)  performing related tasks-,

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Hunter, seal
  Hunter, whale
  Trapper, fur
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/hunting
        - 1221
  General manager, hunting - 1311
  Labourer, hunting - 9213
  Labourer, trapping - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/hunting - 1210

6151  AQUATIC-LIFE CULTIVATION WORKERS
 
     Aquatic-life cultivation workers breed and raise fish and
cultivate  mussels, oysters and other forms of aquatic life, for
sale or delivery on a  regular basis to wholesale buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(b)  purchasing food and other supplies;

(c)  breeding, raising and cultivating fish, mussels, oysters and
     other forms of aquatic life;

(d)  killing and preparing fish and other products for shipment;

(e)  cleaning, freezing, icing or salting catch on- or offshore;

(f)  maintaining buildings, machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Cultivator, algae
  Cultivator, pearl
  Farm worker, skilled/fish
  Farm worker, skilled/seafood on- or offshore;
  Farmer, fish
  Farmer, oyster
  Farmer, seafood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/fishing
        - 1221
  General manager, fishing - 1311
  Labourer, fishery - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/fishing - 1210

6122  POULTRY PRODUCERS
 
     Poultry producers plan and carry out the necessary
operations to breed,  raise and tend poultry for sale or delivery
of eggs, meat or feathers on a  regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at markets.

Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of poultry and poultry
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing chicks, growing and purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending poultry, and collecting eggs;

(e)  killing, dressing and packing poultry for shipment;

(f)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(g)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(h)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(i)  performing related tasks;

(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/poultry
  Farmer, poultry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6151  AQUATIC-LIFE CULTIVATION WORKERS
 
     Aquatic-life cultivation workers breed and raise fish and
cultivate  mussels, oysters and other forms of aquatic life, for
sale or delivery on a  regular basis to wholesale buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(b)  purchasing food and other supplies;

(c)  breeding, raising and cultivating fish, mussels, oysters and
     other forms of aquatic life;

(d)  killing and preparing fish and other products for shipment;

(e)  cleaning, freezing, icing or salting catch on- or offshore;

(f)  maintaining buildings, machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Cultivator, algae
  Cultivator, pearl
  Farm worker, skilled/fish
  Farm worker, skilled/seafood on- or offshore;
  Farmer, fish
  Farmer, oyster
  Farmer, seafood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/fishing
        - 1221
  General manager, fishing - 1311
  Labourer, fishery - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/fishing - 1210

6122  POULTRY PRODUCERS
 
     Poultry producers plan and carry out the necessary
operations to breed,  raise and tend poultry for sale or delivery
of eggs, meat or feathers on a  regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at markets.

Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of poultry and poultry
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing chicks, growing and purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending poultry, and collecting eggs;

(e)  killing, dressing and packing poultry for shipment;

(f)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(g)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(h)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(i)  performing related tasks;

(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/poultry
  Farmer, poultry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

9112  STREET VENDORS, NON-FOOD PRODUCTS
 

     Street vendors, non-food products sell various goods in
streets and  public places such as stations, cinemas or theatres.

     Tasks include -

(a)  buying or making various items for sale

(b)  loading and unloading push-cart, bicycle, truck or other
     vehicle, to transport goods to the streets or public places
     such as stations or cinemas;

(c)  displaying goods ;

(d)  approaching customer and selling newspapers or similar
     goods;

(e)  receiving payment on the spot;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Hawker
  Pedlar
  Vendor, theatre programme
  Vendor, street/non-food products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Salesperson, market - 5230
  Salesperson, street stall - 5230
  Vendor, street/food - 9111

1229  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED 
      This unit group covers department managers not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 122, Production and operations
department managers.

      For instance here should be classified those who plan,
direct and  coordinate activities of the enterprise or
organisation concerning government  administrative and other
operations, public or private education services,  health and
social work services, recreational, cultural, and sporting events

and services, and operations of extra-territorial organisations
and bodies.

      In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating government operations
      concerning public service activities, such as control of
      the money supply or taxation schemes, various government
      business regulations, as well as civil service
      administration and related activities;

(b)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of foreign affairs and
      public order and safety activities;

(c)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of government-funded
      social security schemes;

(d)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      public or private education;

(e)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      health and social services;

(f)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      recreational, cultural and sporting operations and events;

(g)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the operations of extra-territorial organisations and
      bodies;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

Dean

Department manager, production and operations/extra-
         territorial organisations

Department manager, production and operations/health

Department manager, production and operations/recreation

Head teacher


Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, education - 1319

General manager, recreation - 1319

Managing director, enterprise/health 1210

Managing director, organisation/extraterritorial
         organisations - 1210


1120  SENIOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS 

      Senior government officials advise governments on policy
matters, oversee the interpretation and implementation of
government policies and legislation  by government departments
and agencies, represent their country abroad and act  on its
behalf, or carry out similar tasks in intergovernmental
organisations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   advising national, state, regional or local governments on
      policy matters;

(b)   advising on the preparation of government budgets, laws and
      regulations, including amendments;

(c)   overseeing the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies and legislation by government
      departments and agencies;

(d)   representing their country abroad;
         
(e)   performing similar tasks in intergovernmental
      organisations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Administrator, government
Administrator, intergovernmental organisation
Ambassador
Consul-general
Secretary, government/non legislative

1229  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED 
      This unit group covers department managers not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 122, Production and operations
department managers.

      For instance here should be classified those who plan,
direct and  coordinate activities of the enterprise or
organisation concerning government  administrative and other
operations, public or private education services,  health and
social work services, recreational, cultural, and sporting events

and services, and operations of extra-territorial organisations
and bodies.

      In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating government operations
      concerning public service activities, such as control of
      the money supply or taxation schemes, various government
      business regulations, as well as civil service
      administration and related activities;

(b)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of foreign affairs and
      public order and safety activities;

(c)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of government-funded
      social security schemes;

(d)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      public or private education;

(e)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      health and social services;

(f)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      recreational, cultural and sporting operations and events;

(g)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the operations of extra-territorial organisations and
      bodies;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

Dean

Department manager, production and operations/extra-
         territorial organisations

Department manager, production and operations/health

Department manager, production and operations/recreation

Head teacher


Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, education - 1319

General manager, recreation - 1319

Managing director, enterprise/health 1210

Managing director, organisation/extraterritorial
         organisations - 1210


1120  SENIOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS 

      Senior government officials advise governments on policy
matters, oversee the interpretation and implementation of
government policies and legislation  by government departments
and agencies, represent their country abroad and act  on its
behalf, or carry out similar tasks in intergovernmental
organisations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   advising national, state, regional or local governments on
      policy matters;

(b)   advising on the preparation of government budgets, laws and
      regulations, including amendments;

(c)   overseeing the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies and legislation by government
      departments and agencies;

(d)   representing their country abroad;
         
(e)   performing similar tasks in intergovernmental
      organisations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Administrator, government
Administrator, intergovernmental organisation
Ambassador
Consul-general
Secretary, government/non legislative

1229  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED 
      This unit group covers department managers not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 122, Production and operations
department managers.

      For instance here should be classified those who plan,
direct and  coordinate activities of the enterprise or
organisation concerning government  administrative and other
operations, public or private education services,  health and
social work services, recreational, cultural, and sporting events

and services, and operations of extra-territorial organisations
and bodies.

      In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating government operations
      concerning public service activities, such as control of
      the money supply or taxation schemes, various government
      business regulations, as well as civil service
      administration and related activities;

(b)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of foreign affairs and
      public order and safety activities;

(c)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of government-funded
      social security schemes;

(d)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      public or private education;

(e)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      health and social services;

(f)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      recreational, cultural and sporting operations and events;

(g)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the operations of extra-territorial organisations and
      bodies;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

Dean

Department manager, production and operations/extra-
         territorial organisations

Department manager, production and operations/health

Department manager, production and operations/recreation

Head teacher


Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, education - 1319

General manager, recreation - 1319

Managing director, enterprise/health 1210

Managing director, organisation/extraterritorial
         organisations - 1210


1130  TRADITIONAL CHIEFS AND HEADS OF VILLAGES 
      Traditional chiefs and heads of villages perform a variety
of legislative, administrative and ceremonial tasks and duties,
determined by  ancient traditions, as well as by the division of
rights and responsibilities  between village chiefs and the
local, regional and national authorities.

      Tasks include -

(a)   allocating the use of communal land and other resources
      among households in the community or village;

(b)   collecting and distributing surplus production of the
      community or village;

(c)   settling disputes between members of the community or
      village;

(d)   disciplining members of the community or village for
      violation of rules and customs;

(e)   performing ceremonial duties in connection with births,
      marriages, deaths, harvests and other traditional feasts;

(f)   representing the community or village on local or regional
      councils;

(g)   being responsible for informing the community or village
      about government rules and regulations;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Chief, village
Head, village

1229  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED 
      This unit group covers department managers not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 122, Production and operations
department managers.

      For instance here should be classified those who plan,
direct and  coordinate activities of the enterprise or
organisation concerning government  administrative and other
operations, public or private education services,  health and
social work services, recreational, cultural, and sporting events

and services, and operations of extra-territorial organisations
and bodies.

      In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating government operations
      concerning public service activities, such as control of
      the money supply or taxation schemes, various government
      business regulations, as well as civil service
      administration and related activities;

(b)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of foreign affairs and
      public order and safety activities;

(c)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of government-funded
      social security schemes;

(d)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      public or private education;

(e)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      health and social services;

(f)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      recreational, cultural and sporting operations and events;

(g)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the operations of extra-territorial organisations and
      bodies;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

Dean

Department manager, production and operations/extra-
         territorial organisations

Department manager, production and operations/health

Department manager, production and operations/recreation

Head teacher


Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, education - 1319

General manager, recreation - 1319

Managing director, enterprise/health 1210

Managing director, organisation/extraterritorial
         organisations - 1210


3241  TRADITIONAL MEDICINE PRACTITIONERS 
     Traditional medicine practitioners treat human mental and
physical  sickness by herbs, medicinal plants and other
techniques traditionally used in  the community, and believed to
cure and heal by assisting or stimulating  nature, and advise on
methods to preserve or improve health and well-being.

     Tasks include -

(a)   treating sickness and injuries using herbs, medicinal
      plants, insects, and other traditional techniques used in
      the community believed to cure and heal by assisting or
      stimulating nature;

(b)   advising community and individuals on proper diet and
      behaviour to preserve or improve health and well-being

(c)   performing related tasks;

(d)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Healer, drugless treatment
  Healer, herbal
  Healer, village
  Naturopath

3242  FAITH HEALERS 
     Faith healers endeavour to cure human mental and physical
illness by  mental influence and suggestion, power of faith and
spiritual advice.

     Tasks include -

(a)   endeavouring to cure human mental and physical ailments by
      power of faith;

(b)   advising community and individuals on proper behaviour and
      faith to preserve or improve health and well-being;

(c)   performing related tasks;

(d)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Faith healer

3241  TRADITIONAL MEDICINE PRACTITIONERS 
     Traditional medicine practitioners treat human mental and
physical  sickness by herbs, medicinal plants and other
techniques traditionally used in  the community, and believed to
cure and heal by assisting or stimulating  nature, and advise on
methods to preserve or improve health and well-being.

     Tasks include -

(a)   treating sickness and injuries using herbs, medicinal
      plants, insects, and other traditional techniques used in
      the community believed to cure and heal by assisting or
      stimulating nature;

(b)   advising community and individuals on proper diet and
      behaviour to preserve or improve health and well-being

(c)   performing related tasks;

(d)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Healer, drugless treatment
  Healer, herbal
  Healer, village
  Naturopath

2230  NURSING AND MIDWIFERY PROFESSIONALS 
     Nursing and midwifery professionals assist medical doctors
in their  tasks, deal with emergencies in their absence, and
provide professional  nursing care for the sick, injured,
physically and mentally disabled, and  others in need of such
care, or they de liver or assist in the delivery of  babies,
provide antenatal and post-natal care and instruct parents in
baby  care.

     Tasks include -

(a)   giving professional nursing care and treatment, either as
      curative or preventive measures, to ill, injured, disabled
      and other patients, and newborn babies and their mothers,
      in hospitals, clinics or other establishments;

(b)   assisting medical doctors in their tasks, dealing with
      emergencies and giving first-aid treatment in their
      absence;

(c)   administering medicine and drugs, applying surgical
      dressings and giving other forms of treatment prescribed
      by physicians;

(d)   supervising and coordinating the work of nursing and other
      non-medical staff in operating theatres and assisting
      surgeons during operations;

(e)   participating in preparations for physical and
      psychological treatment of mentally ill patients;

(f)   participating in preparations for social adjustment,
      development and education of mentally or physically
      handicapped patients;

(g)   giving profeSSional nursing care to patients in their own
      homes;

(h)   providing professional nursing services, care and advice
      within the community or at a workplace;

(i)   specialising in consultant services to schools, industry
      and other organisations;

(j)   checking on general health and progress of expectant
      mothers during pregnancy, and giving them professional
      advice and care;

(k)   delivering babies in normal births and assisting doctors
      with difficult deliveries;

(l)   attending mothers in the post-natal period to supervise
      their recovery, to check on babies' progress, and to
      instruct parents in baby care;

(m)   advising on and administering birth control methods;

(n)   performing related tasks;

(o)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Matron
  Midwife, professional
  Nurse, professional
  Sister, nursing/professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Aid, nursing/hospital - 5132
  Midwife, associate professional - 3232
  Nurse, associate professional - 3231

9131  DOMESTIC HELPERS AND CLEANERS
 

     Domestic helpers and cleaners sweep, vacuum clean, wash and
polish, take  care of household linen, purchase household
supplies, prepare food, serve  meals and perform various other
domestic duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sweeping, vacuum-cleaning, polishing and washing floors and
     furniture, or washing windows and other fixtures;

(b)  washing, ironing and mending linen and other textiles;

(c)  washing dishes;

(d)  preparing, cooking and serving meals and refreshments;

(e)  purchasing food and various other household supplies;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Charworker, domestic
  Cleaner, domestic
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cleaner, hotel - 9132
  Housekeeper - 5121
  Launderer, hand - 9133
  Sweeper, street - 9162

9211  FARM-HANDS AND LABOURERS
 

     Farm-hands and labourers help with farm work by performing
a variety of  simple farming tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging and shovelling to clear ditches or for other
     purposes;

(b)  loading, unloading various crops and other materials;

(c)  raking, pitching and stacking hay;

(d)  watering and weeding;

(e)  picking fruit, vegetables and various plants;

(f)  helping with planting, harvesting and general farmwork;

(g)  feeding, watering, and cleaning animals and keeping their
     quarters clean;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, farm
  Picker, fruit
Some related occupations classified else where:
  Shepherd - 6121
  Farm worker, skilled/field crops - 6111
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock - 6121

9131  DOMESTIC HELPERS AND CLEANERS
 

     Domestic helpers and cleaners sweep, vacuum clean, wash and
polish, take  care of household linen, purchase household
supplies, prepare food, serve  meals and perform various other
domestic duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sweeping, vacuum-cleaning, polishing and washing floors and
     furniture, or washing windows and other fixtures;

(b)  washing, ironing and mending linen and other textiles;

(c)  washing dishes;

(d)  preparing, cooking and serving meals and refreshments;

(e)  purchasing food and various other household supplies;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Charworker, domestic
  Cleaner, domestic
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cleaner, hotel - 9132
  Housekeeper - 5121
  Launderer, hand - 9133
  Sweeper, street - 9162

9132  HELPERS AND CLEANERS IN OFFICES, HOTELS AND OTHER ESTABLISHMENTS
 

     Helpers and cleaners in offices, hotels and other
establishments perform  various cleaning tasks in order to keep
clean and tidy the interiors and  fixtures of hotels, offices and
other establishments, as well as of aircraft,  trains, buses and
similar vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sweeping or vacuum-cleaning, washing and polishing floors,
     furniture and other fixtures in buildings, coaches, buses,
     trams, trains and aircraft;

(b)  making beds, cleaning bathrooms, supplying towels, soap and
     related items;

(c)  cleaning kitchens and generally helping with kitchen work,
     including dishwashing ;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cleaner,  aircraft
  Cleaner, hotel
  Cleaner, office
  Washer, hand/dishes
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Caretaker, building - 9141
  Cleaner, domestic - 9131
  Housekeeper - 5121
  Sweeper, street - 9162

6141  FORESTRY WORKERS AND LOGGERS
 
     Forestry workers and loggers carry out the necessary
operations to  cultivate, conserve and exploit forests, for sale
or delivery of forestry  products on a regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a) establishing and caring for forest stands;

(b)  locating trees to be felled and estimating volume of timber;

(c)  trimming, topping and felling trees and sawing them into
     logs;

(d)  shaping rough wooden products from logs at felling site;

(e)  stacking logs, loading them in chutes or floating them down
     rivers;

(f)  keeping watch to detect forest fires and participating in
     firefighting operations;

(g)  delivering or marketing forestry products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Climber, logging
  Cruiser, timber
  Feller-bucker, tree
  Forestry worker, skilled
  Logger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/forestry
        - 1221
  General manager, forestry - 1311
  Labourer, forestry - 9212
  Managing director, enterprise/forestry - 1210
  Operator, forestry machinery - 8331

1120  SENIOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS 

      Senior government officials advise governments on policy
matters, oversee the interpretation and implementation of
government policies and legislation  by government departments
and agencies, represent their country abroad and act  on its
behalf, or carry out similar tasks in intergovernmental
organisations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   advising national, state, regional or local governments on
      policy matters;

(b)   advising on the preparation of government budgets, laws and
      regulations, including amendments;

(c)   overseeing the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies and legislation by government
      departments and agencies;

(d)   representing their country abroad;
         
(e)   performing similar tasks in intergovernmental
      organisations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Administrator, government
Administrator, intergovernmental organisation
Ambassador
Consul-general
Secretary, government/non legislative

2211  BIOLOGISTS, BOTANISTS, ZOOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Biologists, botanists, zoologists and related professionals
conduct  research, improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and  apply scientific knowledge relating to
biology, microbiology, bacteriology,  cytology, genetics,
zoology, botany and ecology, especially in the fields of 
medicine and agriculture.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   conducting field and laboratory experiments concerning all
      forms of life by identifying and classifying human, animal,
      insect or plant specimens, and studying their origin,
      development, chemical and physical form, structure,
      composition, and life and reproductive processes;

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure, development and characteristics of micro-
      organisms such as bacteria or viruses;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the factors
      involved in the origin, development and transmission of
      hereditary characteristics in human beings, animals or
      plants;

(e)   studying all forms of plant life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(f)   studying all forms of animal life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(g)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure and functions of living cells, and the influence
      of physical and chemical factors upon normal and abnormal
      cells;

(h)   studying inter-relationships of animal and plant life and
      the environmental factors involved, and giving professional
      advice to related disciplines;

(i)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bacteriologist
  Biologist
  Botanist
  Ecologist
  Microbiologist
  Zoologist

2212  PHARMACOLOGISTS, PATHOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Pharmacologists, pathologists and related professionals
conduct research,  improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and apply  scientific knowledge relating to
anatomy, biochemistry, biophysics,  physiology, pathology, or
pharmacology, in such fields as medicine,  agriculture or
industry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   studying and conducting experiments 

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the chemical
      composition and processes of living organisms;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the life
      processes and functions of human, animal or plant organs,
      tissues, cells, glands and systems under normal and
      abnormal or exceptional conditions;

(e)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the nature,
      causes and development of human, animal or plant diseases
      and disorders;

(f)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the effects
      of drugs and other substances on the tissues, organs and
      physiological processes of human beings and animals, and
      improving existing or developing new drugs;

(g)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Anatomist
  Biochemist
  Biophysicist
  Pathologist
  Pharmacologist
  Physiologist

2443  PHILOSOPHERS, HISTORIANS AND POLITICAL SCIENTISTS 
     Philosophers, historians and political scientists work,
mostly by  reasoning, in the field of epistemology, metaphysics
or ethics.  They conduct  research and describe past events and
activities, including the development of  social and economic
structures, or cultural and political institutions and 
movements, and make the knowledge obtained available as a basis
for political,  diplomatic and related policies.

     Tasks include -

(a)   researching, mostly by reasoning, into the general causes,
      principles and meanings of the world, human actions,
      experience and existence, and interpreting and developing
      philosophical concepts and theories;

(b)   consulting and comparing primary sources, such as original
      or contemporary records of past events, and secondary
      sources such as archaeological or anthropological findings;

(c)   extracting relevant material, checking its authenticity,
      and researching into and describing the history of a
      particular period, country or region, or a particular facet
      - for example economic, social or political - of its
      history;

(d)   conducting research in such fields as political philosophy,
      or past and present theory and practice of political
      systems, institutions or behaviour;

(e)   observing contemporary political institutions and
      collecting data on them from various sources, including
      interviews with government and political party officials
      and other relevant persons;

(f)   presenting findings and conclusions for publication or use
      by government, political parties or other organisations and
      interested persons;

(g)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Historian
  Philosopher
  Political scientist

9313  BUILDING CONSTRUCTION LABOURERS
 

     Building construction labourers perform simple and routine
tasks in  connection with various aspects of building
construction

     Tasks include -

(a)  cleaning used building bricks and doing other simple work
     on demolition sites;

(b)  clearing various obstructions as instructed;

(c)  carrying bricks and mortar to bricklayer on construction
     site;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, construction/buildings work
  Labourer, demolition
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Bricklayer, construction - 7122
  Builder, house/traditional materials - 7121
  Demolition worker - 7129

2419  BUSINESS PROFESSIONALS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers business professionals not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 241, Business professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  studying, advising on and applying operational
methods relating to various  aspects of business undertakings,
such as marketing, advertising, public  relations, application
of rules concerning patents, or steps to be taken in  setting up
and running a business, and home economics principles.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   conducting research and determining or advising on existing
      level of sales for particular products or services, and
      assessing potential markets and future trends;

(b)   planning, advising on or directing and coordinating
      production of advertising campaigns;

(c)   studying, advising on and conducting public relations
      programmes with a view to improving the public's knowledge
      and understanding of the enterprise or establishment in
      question;

(d)   giving advice concerning patents and assisting in preparing
      applications or examining applications submitted for
      registration, and writing reports setting out reasons for
      or against the granting of a patent;

(e)   studying and advising on financial, legal, organisational,
      marketing and other aspects connected with setting up and
      running a business;

(f)   studying, interpreting and informing about and advising on
      principles of home economics and management with a view to
      promoting welfare of families, as well as the consumption
      of household goods, or the promotion of new products;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Account executive, advertising
  Analyst, market research
  Home economist
  Officer, public relations
  Patent agent

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Company secretary - 1231

3229  MODERN HEALTH ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS (EXCEPT NURSING) NOT
ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers modern health associate professionals
(except  nursing) not classified elsewhere in Minor group 322,
Modem health associate  professionals (except nursing).

     For instance, here should be classified those who practise
homeopathy,  plan and carry out therapeutical activities to help
the mentally unbalanced,  ill, or physically handicapped, deal
with speech impediments, provide eye  exercises as remedial
treatment, or deal with orientation problems of the  blind.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   treating a particular illness by giving the patient
      infinitesimal doses of the bodies which provoke similar
      illnesses;

(b)   planning or carrying out therapeutic activities connected
      with education, vocational training or recreation in order
      to help the mentally unbalanced, ill, or physically
      handicapped;

(c)   dealing with pronunciation defects;

(d)   correcting sonority of language pronunciation;

(e)   applying remedial treatment to the eye muscles by means of
      eye exercises;

(f)   treating orientation problems of the blind;

(g)   performing related tasks;


(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 Homeopath
  Orthoepist
  Orthophonist
  Therapist, occupational

6129  MARKET-ORIENTED ANIMAL PRODUCERS AND RELATED WORKERS NOT
ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED

 
     This unit group covers market-oriented animal producers and
related  workers not classified elsewhere in Minor group 612,
Market-oriented animal  producers and related workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  breeding, raising and tending wild mammals, game
birds and other birds,  snails, non-domesticated fur-giving
animals, snakes and other reptiles, as well  as various insects
and animals used for laboratory tests, for sale or delivery  on
a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations,
zoos and  circuses, or at markets. Here should also be classified
those who look after  or train animals in animal reserves,
stables, zoos, circuses, research  organisations, animal homes,
and similar institutions.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  buying or setting up necessary buildings, open or sheltered
     space, equipment, etc., and maintaining them;

(b)  determining kinds and amounts of animals to be raised;

(c)  purchasing animals, growing or purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(d)  breeding, raising, feeding and tending animals;

(e)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market

(f)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(g)  protecting animals, especially in animal reserves;

(h)  training animals for racing, circus performances and the
     like;

(i)  delivering or marketing products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, bird
  Breeder, game bird
  Breeder, laboratory animal/mice
  Breeder, lion
  Breeder, snail
  Farmer, fur/non-domesticated animals
  Keeper, animal reserve
  Keeper, zoo
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Game-warden - 5169

6113  GARDENERS, HORTICULTURAL AND NURSERY GROWERS
 
     Gardeners, horticultural and nursery growers plan and carry
out the  necessary operations to grow vegetables by intensive
cultivation techniques,  to cultivate trees, shrubs, flowers and
other plants, and to produce saplings,  bulbs and seeds, for sale
or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers,  marketing
organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of vegetables, horticultural
     and nursery products to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, bulbs, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery-

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     growing vegetables by intensive cultivation, cultivating
     flowers, trees or bushes and harvesting crops;

(e)  producing saplings, bulbs and seeds;

(f)  cultivating flowers, trees, shrubs and other plants in parks
     or public or private gardens;

(g)  growing plants for exhibition or medicinal purposes;

(h)  delivering or marketing products;

(i)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(j)  tending working animals and maintaining buildings, machinery
     and equipment;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Cultivator, mushroom
  Farm worker, skilled/nursery
  Gardener
  Grower, horticultural nursery
  Horticultural grower
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

2213  AGRONOMISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Agronomists and related professionals conduct research and
improve or  develop concepts, theories and operational methods,
and apply scientific  knowledge relating to crop and animal
husbandry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   researching into field crops and grasses and developing new
      or improved cultivation methods;

(b)   researching into horticultural crops and developing new or
      improved cultivation methods;

(c)   researching into animal husbandry and developing new or
      improved breeding methods;

(d)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for tree propagation and culture, or planning and directing
      afforestation and exploitation of forest stands;

(e)   researching into characteristics, use capability and
      productivity of soils and applying findings to development
      of improved agricultural, horticultural and forestry
      practices;

(f)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for wildlife conservation;

(g)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for economic exploitation of grazing lands;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Agronomist
  Animal scientist
  Forestry scientist
  Horticulturist
  Soil scientist

5149  OTHER PERSONAL SERVICES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers personal services workers not
classified elsewhere  in Minor group 514, Other personal services
workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who undertake
to be dancing  partners or social escorts, or perform duties of
club or night-club hostesses  or hosts.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  accompanying clients to restaurants and other outings;

(b)  acting as a dancing partner;

(c)  welcoming clients to a night-club and ensuring that they are
     entertained well;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Escort, social
  Host, club
  Hostess, club
  Partner, dancing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Companion - 5142

8159  CHEMICAL-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-processing-plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 815, Chemical-processing
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment
which treat chemical  solutions with bleaching reagents, produce
coke or gas from coal, extrude and  form natural or synthetic
polymers into synthetic fibres, produce fertilisers,  or extract
and process radioactive materials.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which treats chemical
     solutions with bleaching reagents;

(b)  operating and monitoring plant which produces coke or gas
     from coal;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which extrudes or forms
     natural or synthetic polymers into synthetic fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring fertiliser plant equipment;

(e)  operating and monitoring plant which separates and extracts
     radioactive materials from their ores or processes such
     materials;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, coke production plant
  Operator, fertiliser plant
  Operator, synthetic-fibre production plant

9131  DOMESTIC HELPERS AND CLEANERS
 

     Domestic helpers and cleaners sweep, vacuum clean, wash and
polish, take  care of household linen, purchase household
supplies, prepare food, serve  meals and perform various other
domestic duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sweeping, vacuum-cleaning, polishing and washing floors and
     furniture, or washing windows and other fixtures;

(b)  washing, ironing and mending linen and other textiles;

(c)  washing dishes;

(d)  preparing, cooking and serving meals and refreshments;

(e)  purchasing food and various other household supplies;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Charworker, domestic
  Cleaner, domestic
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cleaner, hotel - 9132
  Housekeeper - 5121
  Launderer, hand - 9133
  Sweeper, street - 9162

7129  BUILDING FRAME AND RELATED TRADES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers building frame and related trades
workers not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 712, Building
frame and related trades  workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who perform
miscellaneous  construction and building maintenance tasks.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  performing miscellaneous construction and building
     maintenance work on structures such as office buildings,
     apartment houses, factories and similar establishments in
     good repair;

(b)  performing construction, maintenance or repair work at
     unusual heights;

(c)  erecting temporary metal or wooden scaffolding on building
     sites;

(d)  demolishing buildings and other structures;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Demolition worker
  Housebuilder, non-traditional materials
  Scaffolder
  Steeplejack
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Labourer, construction/buildings 9313
  Labourer, demolition - 9313

7121  BUILDERS, TRADITIONAL MATERIALS
 

     Builders, traditional materials erect, maintain and repair
small and  large buildings and other structures by using
traditional building techniques  and materials such as bamboo,
hay, straw, reeds, mud, planks, poles or leaves.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing ground for erecting building or other structures;

(b)  collecting necessary materials;

(c)  erecting structures to support roof, and building and
     covering walls with mud, straw or other materials;

(d)  fixing rafters to roof and covering with roofing material;

(e)  levelling floor to make it smooth and serviceable;

(f)  maintaining and repairing existing structures;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Housebuilder, traditional materials

3460  SOCIAL WORK ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
      Social work associate professionals provide guidance to
clients in social and related matters to enable them to find and
use resources to overcome difficulties and achieve particular
goals.      Tasks include:

(a)   helping individuals and families with personal and social
      problems;

(b)   collecting information relevant to clients' needs and
      advising them on their rights and obligations;

(c)   analysing the client's situation and presenting alternative
      approaches to resolving problems;

(d)   compiling case records or reports for court and other legal
      proceedings;

(e)   planning, evaluating, improving and developing welfare
      services;

(f)   working to prevent development of delinquency or to achieve
      rehabilitation of delinquents by organising and supervising
      social, recreational and educational activities in youth
      clubs, community centres and similar organisations, or by
      other means;

(g)   helping physically or mentally handicapped persons to
      obtain adequate treatment and improve their ability to
      function in society;

(h)   planning, organising or providing home-help services;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Social worker, associate professional
  Social worker, associate professional/enterprise
  Welfare worker, associate professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Social worker, professional - 2446
  Social worker, professional/enterprise - 2446
  Welfare worker, professional -2446

2446  SOCIAL WORK PROFESSIONALS 
     Social work professionals provide guidance to clients in
social and  related matters to enable them to find and use
resources to overcome  difficulties and achieve particular goals.

     Tasks include

(a)   helping individuals and families with personal and social
      problems;

(b)   collecting information relevant to clients' needs and
      advising them on their rights and obligations;

(c)   analysing the client's situation and presenting alternative
      approaches to resolving problems;

(d)   compiling case records or reports for courts and other
      legal proceedings;

(e)   planning, evaluating, improving and developing welfare
      services;

(f)   working to prevent development of delinquency or to achieve
      rehabilitation of delinquents by organising and supervising
      social, recreational and educational activities in youth
      clubs, community centres and similar organisations, or by
      other means;

(g)   helping physically or mentally handicapped persons to
      obtain adequate treatment and improve their ability to
      function in society;

(h)   planning, organising or providing home-help services;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Social worker, professional
  Social worker, professional/enterprise
  Welfare worker, professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Social worker, associate professional - 3460
  Social worker, associate professional/enterprise - 3460
  Welfare worker, associate professional - 3460

5121  HOUSEKEEPERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Housekeepers and related workers organise, supervise and
carry out  housekeeping functions in hotels, clubs, boarding
schools and other  enterprises and institutions and in private
households.

     Tasks include -

(a)  engaging, training, discharging organising and supervising
     workers employed as domestic staff;

(b)  purchasing or controlling the purchase of supplies;

(c)  controlling storage and issue of supplies;

(d)  supervising general welfare and conduct of individuals in
     institutions;

(e)  assisting in cases of minor injury or illness by performing
     tasks such as taking temperature, giving medicine, putting
     on bandages;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Housekeeper
  Matron, housekeeping
  Steward, house

9131  DOMESTIC HELPERS AND CLEANERS
 

     Domestic helpers and cleaners sweep, vacuum clean, wash and
polish, take  care of household linen, purchase household
supplies, prepare food, serve  meals and perform various other
domestic duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sweeping, vacuum-cleaning, polishing and washing floors and
     furniture, or washing windows and other fixtures;

(b)  washing, ironing and mending linen and other textiles;

(c)  washing dishes;

(d)  preparing, cooking and serving meals and refreshments;

(e)  purchasing food and various other household supplies;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Charworker, domestic
  Cleaner, domestic
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cleaner, hotel - 9132
  Housekeeper - 5121
  Launderer, hand - 9133
  Sweeper, street - 9162

3460  SOCIAL WORK ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
      Social work associate professionals provide guidance to
clients in social and related matters to enable them to find and
use resources to overcome difficulties and achieve particular
goals.      Tasks include:

(a)   helping individuals and families with personal and social
      problems;

(b)   collecting information relevant to clients' needs and
      advising them on their rights and obligations;

(c)   analysing the client's situation and presenting alternative
      approaches to resolving problems;

(d)   compiling case records or reports for court and other legal
      proceedings;

(e)   planning, evaluating, improving and developing welfare
      services;

(f)   working to prevent development of delinquency or to achieve
      rehabilitation of delinquents by organising and supervising
      social, recreational and educational activities in youth
      clubs, community centres and similar organisations, or by
      other means;

(g)   helping physically or mentally handicapped persons to
      obtain adequate treatment and improve their ability to
      function in society;

(h)   planning, organising or providing home-help services;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Social worker, associate professional
  Social worker, associate professional/enterprise
  Welfare worker, associate professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Social worker, professional - 2446
  Social worker, professional/enterprise - 2446
  Welfare worker, professional -2446

2446  SOCIAL WORK PROFESSIONALS 
     Social work professionals provide guidance to clients in
social and  related matters to enable them to find and use
resources to overcome  difficulties and achieve particular goals.

     Tasks include

(a)   helping individuals and families with personal and social
      problems;

(b)   collecting information relevant to clients' needs and
      advising them on their rights and obligations;

(c)   analysing the client's situation and presenting alternative
      approaches to resolving problems;

(d)   compiling case records or reports for courts and other
      legal proceedings;

(e)   planning, evaluating, improving and developing welfare
      services;

(f)   working to prevent development of delinquency or to achieve
      rehabilitation of delinquents by organising and supervising
      social, recreational and educational activities in youth
      clubs, community centres and similar organisations, or by
      other means;

(g)   helping physically or mentally handicapped persons to
      obtain adequate treatment and improve their ability to
      function in society;

(h)   planning, organising or providing home-help services;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Social worker, professional
  Social worker, professional/enterprise
  Welfare worker, professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Social worker, associate professional - 3460
  Social worker, associate professional/enterprise - 3460
  Welfare worker, associate professional - 3460

3460  SOCIAL WORK ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
      Social work associate professionals provide guidance to
clients in social and related matters to enable them to find and
use resources to overcome difficulties and achieve particular
goals.      Tasks include:

(a)   helping individuals and families with personal and social
      problems;

(b)   collecting information relevant to clients' needs and
      advising them on their rights and obligations;

(c)   analysing the client's situation and presenting alternative
      approaches to resolving problems;

(d)   compiling case records or reports for court and other legal
      proceedings;

(e)   planning, evaluating, improving and developing welfare
      services;

(f)   working to prevent development of delinquency or to achieve
      rehabilitation of delinquents by organising and supervising
      social, recreational and educational activities in youth
      clubs, community centres and similar organisations, or by
      other means;

(g)   helping physically or mentally handicapped persons to
      obtain adequate treatment and improve their ability to
      function in society;

(h)   planning, organising or providing home-help services;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Social worker, associate professional
  Social worker, associate professional/enterprise
  Welfare worker, associate professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Social worker, professional - 2446
  Social worker, professional/enterprise - 2446
  Welfare worker, professional -2446

2446  SOCIAL WORK PROFESSIONALS 
     Social work professionals provide guidance to clients in
social and  related matters to enable them to find and use
resources to overcome  difficulties and achieve particular goals.

     Tasks include

(a)   helping individuals and families with personal and social
      problems;

(b)   collecting information relevant to clients' needs and
      advising them on their rights and obligations;

(c)   analysing the client's situation and presenting alternative
      approaches to resolving problems;

(d)   compiling case records or reports for courts and other
      legal proceedings;

(e)   planning, evaluating, improving and developing welfare
      services;

(f)   working to prevent development of delinquency or to achieve
      rehabilitation of delinquents by organising and supervising
      social, recreational and educational activities in youth
      clubs, community centres and similar organisations, or by
      other means;

(g)   helping physically or mentally handicapped persons to
      obtain adequate treatment and improve their ability to
      function in society;

(h)   planning, organising or providing home-help services;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Social worker, professional
  Social worker, professional/enterprise
  Welfare worker, professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Social worker, associate professional - 3460
  Social worker, associate professional/enterprise - 3460
  Welfare worker, associate professional - 3460

6154  HUNTERS AND TRAPPERS
 
     Hunters and trappers catch and kill mammals, birds or
reptiles mainly for  meat, skin, feathers and other products, for
sale or delivery on a regular  basis to wholesale buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting traps to catch mammals, birds or reptiles;

(b)  killing trapped or free mammals, birds or reptiles with
     firearms or other weapons;

(c)  skinning and otherwise treating killed mammals, birds or
     reptiles to obtain desired products for sale or delivery.

(d)  delivering or selling trapped live mammals, birds or
     reptiles-,

(e)  repairing and maintaining equipment.

(f)  performing related tasks-,

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Hunter, seal
  Hunter, whale
  Trapper, fur
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/hunting
        - 1221
  General manager, hunting - 1311
  Labourer, hunting - 9213
  Labourer, trapping - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/hunting - 1210

2211  BIOLOGISTS, BOTANISTS, ZOOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Biologists, botanists, zoologists and related professionals
conduct  research, improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and  apply scientific knowledge relating to
biology, microbiology, bacteriology,  cytology, genetics,
zoology, botany and ecology, especially in the fields of 
medicine and agriculture.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   conducting field and laboratory experiments concerning all
      forms of life by identifying and classifying human, animal,
      insect or plant specimens, and studying their origin,
      development, chemical and physical form, structure,
      composition, and life and reproductive processes;

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure, development and characteristics of micro-
      organisms such as bacteria or viruses;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the factors
      involved in the origin, development and transmission of
      hereditary characteristics in human beings, animals or
      plants;

(e)   studying all forms of plant life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(f)   studying all forms of animal life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(g)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure and functions of living cells, and the influence
      of physical and chemical factors upon normal and abnormal
      cells;

(h)   studying inter-relationships of animal and plant life and
      the environmental factors involved, and giving professional
      advice to related disciplines;

(i)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bacteriologist
  Biologist
  Botanist
  Ecologist
  Microbiologist
  Zoologist

2111  PHYSICISTS AND ASTRONOMERS 
     Physicists and astronomers conduct research, improve or
develop concepts,  theories and operational methods, or apply
scientific knowledge relating to  physics and astronomy in
industrial, medical, military or other fields.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research, and improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods related to physics and
      astronomy-.

(b)   conducting experiments, tests and analyses in fields such
      as mechanics, thermodynamics, optics, sonics, electricity,
      magnetism, electronics and nuclear physics, or astronomy;

(c)   conducting experiments, tests and analyses of the structure
      and properties of matter in solid state and its behaviour
      under temperature, pressure, stress and other conditions;

(d)   evaluating results of investigations and experiments and
      expressing conclusions, mainly using mathematical
      techniques and models;

(e)   developing or improving industrial, medical, military and
      other practical applications of the principles and
      techniques of physics or astronomy'.

(f)   observing, analysing and interpreting celestial phenomena
      and developing methods and techniques to be used in fields
      such as navigation or space exploration;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Astronomer

  Physicist

2114  GEOLOGISTS AND GEOPHYSICISTS 
     Geologists and geophysicists conduct research, improve or
develop  concepts, theories and operational methods, or apply
scientific knowledge  relating to geology and geophysics in such
fields as oil, gas and mineral  exploitation, water conservation,
civil engineering, telecommunications and  navigation.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods related to geology and
      geophysics;

(b)   studying composition and structure of the earth's crust,
      examining rocks, minerals, fossil remains, etc., to
      determine processes affecting the development of the earth,
      trace evolution of past life and establish nature and
      chronology of geological formations;

(c)   interpreting research data and preparing geological
      reports, maps, charts and diagrams;

(d)   applying results of research to assess development
      potential of mineral, gas and oil deposits and underground
      water resources;

(e)   applying geological knowledge to problems encountered in
      civil engineering projects such as the construction of
      dams, bridges, tunnels and large buildings;

(f)   investigating and measuring seismic, gravitational,
      electrical, thermal and magnetic forces affecting the
      earth;

(g)   investigating and measuring optical and acoustic phenomena
      in the atmosphere;

(h)   estimating weight, size and mass of the earth and
      composition and structure of its interior, and studying the
      nature and activity of volcanoes, glaciers and earthquakes;

(i)   charting the earth's magnetic field and applying this and
      other collected data for purposes of broadcasting and
      navigation;

(j)   studying and measuring physical properties of seas and the
      atmosphere and their inter-relationship, such as the
      exchange of thermal energy;

(k)   locating and determining the nature and extent of oil, gas
      and mineral deposits and of ground-water resources, using
      seismological, gravimetric, magnetic, electrical or
      radiometric methods;

(l)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(m)   performing related tasks;

(n)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Geologist
  Geophysicist

3225  DENTAL ASSISTANTS 
     Dental assistants carry out advisory, diagnostic, preventive
and curative  dental tasks, more limited in scope and complexity
than those carried out by  Dentists, and they assist Dentists by
preparing and taking care of instruments  and other equipment,
preparing materials and helping patients prepare for  examination
and treatment.

     Tasks include -


(a)   advising communities and individuals on dental hygiene,
      diet  and other preventive dental measures;

(b)   conducting dental examinations to make diagnoses and refer
      more difficult cases to Dentists when needed;

(c)   cleaning teeth, preparing cavities and placing fillings;

(d)   performing certain types of prosthetic work and some
      surgical procedures;

(e)   preparing and taking care of dental instruments and
      equipment;

(f)   preparing dental materials;

(g)   helping patients prepare for examination or treatment;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Assistant, dental
  Assistant, dental/school service
  Hygienist, dental

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Aid, dental - 5132
  Mechanic, dental - 7311

3474  CLOWNS, MAGICIANS, ACROBATS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS
 
     Clowns, magicians, acrobats and related associate
professionals entertain  audiences in circuses and other places
by performing a variety of acts.   
   
     Tasks include -

(a)   performing amusing antics and telling funny stories;

(b)   performing tricks of illusion and sleight of hand, and
      feats of hypnotism;

(c)   performing difficult and spectacular acrobatics, and
      gymnastic or juggling feats:

(d)   training and performing with animals;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Acrobat	
  Aerialist
  Clown
  Hypnotist
  Magician

2211  BIOLOGISTS, BOTANISTS, ZOOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Biologists, botanists, zoologists and related professionals
conduct  research, improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and  apply scientific knowledge relating to
biology, microbiology, bacteriology,  cytology, genetics,
zoology, botany and ecology, especially in the fields of 
medicine and agriculture.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   conducting field and laboratory experiments concerning all
      forms of life by identifying and classifying human, animal,
      insect or plant specimens, and studying their origin,
      development, chemical and physical form, structure,
      composition, and life and reproductive processes;

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure, development and characteristics of micro-
      organisms such as bacteria or viruses;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the factors
      involved in the origin, development and transmission of
      hereditary characteristics in human beings, animals or
      plants;

(e)   studying all forms of plant life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(f)   studying all forms of animal life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(g)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure and functions of living cells, and the influence
      of physical and chemical factors upon normal and abnormal
      cells;

(h)   studying inter-relationships of animal and plant life and
      the environmental factors involved, and giving professional
      advice to related disciplines;

(i)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bacteriologist
  Biologist
  Botanist
  Ecologist
  Microbiologist
  Zoologist

3474  CLOWNS, MAGICIANS, ACROBATS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS
 
     Clowns, magicians, acrobats and related associate
professionals entertain  audiences in circuses and other places
by performing a variety of acts.   
   
     Tasks include -

(a)   performing amusing antics and telling funny stories;

(b)   performing tricks of illusion and sleight of hand, and
      feats of hypnotism;

(c)   performing difficult and spectacular acrobatics, and
      gymnastic or juggling feats:

(d)   training and performing with animals;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Acrobat	
  Aerialist
  Clown
  Hypnotist
  Magician

3471  DECORATORS AND COMMERCIAL DESIGNERS
 
     Decorators and commercial designers apply artistic
techniques to product  design, interior decoration and sales
promotion.     Tasks include -

(a)   designing industrial and commercial products, including new
      types and styles of clothing and accessories, and
      endeavouring to harmonise aesthetic considerations with
      technical and other requirements;

(b)   creating interior decorating schemes and planning
      furnishings for homes. public buildings, ships and   other
      places;

(c)   designing and painting stage scenery;

(d)   tattooing decorative designs on client's skin;

(e)   creating and executing artistic effects for use in show
      windows and other display areas;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Decorator, display
  Decorator, interior
  Designer, fashion
  Designer, industrial products
  Tattooist
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Architect, interior - 2141
  Artist, commercial - 2452

3118  DRAUGHTSPERSONS 
     Draughts persons prepare technical drawings, maps and
illustrations from  sketches, measurements and other data, and
copy drawings and paintings onto  printing plates.

     Tasks include -

(a)   preparing and revising working drawings from sketches and
      specifications prepared by engineers and designers for the
      manufacture, installation and erection of machinery and
      equipment or for the construction, modification,
      maintenance and repair of buildings, dams, bridges, roads
      and other architectural and civil engineering projects;

(b)   operating computer-assisted drawing equipment to create,
      modify and generate hard-copy and digital representations
      of working drawings;


(c)   operating digitising table or similar equipment to transfer
      hard-copy representation of working drawings, maps and
      other curves to digital form;

(d)   using stereo instruments to capture topographical data in
      analogue or digital form, and using these and other data
to
      prepare and revise topographical, hydrographic, utility and
      other thematic maps;

(e)   preparing and revising illustrations for reference works,
      brochures and technical manuals dealing with the assembly,
      installation, operation, maintenance and repair of
      machinery and other equipment and goods;

(f)   copying drawings and  paintings  onto stone or metal plates
      for printing;

(g)   performing related tasks;s

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Draughtsperson
  Draughtsperson, architectural
  Draughtsperson, cartographical
  Draughtsperson, engineering/civil
  Illustrator, technical

2460  RELIGIOUS PROFESSIONALS 
      
     Religious professionals function as perpetrators of the
sacred  traditions, practices and beliefs and celebrate or
administer at the rituals  of initiation, preside over ritual
reenactments of creative, redemptive or  salvatory events, and
offer sacrifices to the gods or to one God.

     Tasks include -

(a)   perpetuating sacred traditions, practices and beliefs;

(d)   conducting religious services, rites and ceremonies;

(c)   undertaking various administrative and social duties,
      including a ending committees and meetings of religious
      organisations;

(d)   providing spiritual and moral guidance in accordance with
      the religion professed;

(e)   propagating religious doctrines in own country or abroad;

(f)   preparing religious sermons and preachings;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bonze
  Imam
  Minister, religion
  Monk, professional
  Nun, professional
  Poojari
  Priest
  Rabbi

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Monk, associate professional - 3480
  Nun, associate professional - 3480
  Preacher, lay - 3480

3474  CLOWNS, MAGICIANS, ACROBATS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS
 
     Clowns, magicians, acrobats and related associate
professionals entertain  audiences in circuses and other places
by performing a variety of acts.   
   
     Tasks include -

(a)   performing amusing antics and telling funny stories;

(b)   performing tricks of illusion and sleight of hand, and
      feats of hypnotism;

(c)   performing difficult and spectacular acrobatics, and
      gymnastic or juggling feats:

(d)   training and performing with animals;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Acrobat	
  Aerialist
  Clown
  Hypnotist
  Magician

2211  BIOLOGISTS, BOTANISTS, ZOOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Biologists, botanists, zoologists and related professionals
conduct  research, improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and  apply scientific knowledge relating to
biology, microbiology, bacteriology,  cytology, genetics,
zoology, botany and ecology, especially in the fields of 
medicine and agriculture.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   conducting field and laboratory experiments concerning all
      forms of life by identifying and classifying human, animal,
      insect or plant specimens, and studying their origin,
      development, chemical and physical form, structure,
      composition, and life and reproductive processes;

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure, development and characteristics of micro-
      organisms such as bacteria or viruses;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the factors
      involved in the origin, development and transmission of
      hereditary characteristics in human beings, animals or
      plants;

(e)   studying all forms of plant life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(f)   studying all forms of animal life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(g)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure and functions of living cells, and the influence
      of physical and chemical factors upon normal and abnormal
      cells;

(h)   studying inter-relationships of animal and plant life and
      the environmental factors involved, and giving professional
      advice to related disciplines;

(i)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bacteriologist
  Biologist
  Botanist
  Ecologist
  Microbiologist
  Zoologist

2455  FILM, STAGE AND RELATED ACTORS AND DIRECTORS      
     Film, stage and related actors and directors act in, or
direct, motion  pictures, television or radio productions and
stage,shows.

     Tasks include -

(a)   learning lines and cues and playing parts in dramatic
      productions on stage, television, radio or in motion
      pictures;

(b)   telling stories or reading literary works aloud to educate
      or entertain listeners;

(c)   studying scripts to determine artistic interpretation,
      instructing actors on acting methods, and directing all
      aspects of dramatic productions on stage, television, radio
      or in motion pictures, including choice of actors, and
      final decisions concerning costumes, set designs, sound or
      lighting effects;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Actor
  Director, motion picture
  Director, stage
  Story-teller, radio or television

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Clown - 3474
  Impresario - 1229
  Producer, theatre - 1229
  Stage manager, 1229

7341  COMPOSITORS, TYPESETTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Compositors, typesetters and related workers set and arrange
printing  type by hand or machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting type by hand and printing copies with simple
     machines;

(b)  operating linotype, monotype and typecasting machines;

(c)  arranging set-up of type and spacing material and
     illustration blocks to make pages;

(d)  arranging pages in sequence for printing;

(e)  operating electronic key-boarding machines which enable
     characters to be converted into film, sensitised tape or
     paper for subsequent photo plate-making;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Compositor, printing
  Printer
  Typesetter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Press-operator, printing/cylinder 8251

7421  WOOD TREATERS
 

     Wood treaters season and preserve wood.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating steam-heated kilns to season wood;

(b)  treating wood with chemicals to protect it against decay or
     parasites;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Wood seasoner
  Wood treater
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, treating/wood 8141

1229  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED 
      This unit group covers department managers not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 122, Production and operations
department managers.

      For instance here should be classified those who plan,
direct and  coordinate activities of the enterprise or
organisation concerning government  administrative and other
operations, public or private education services,  health and
social work services, recreational, cultural, and sporting events

and services, and operations of extra-territorial organisations
and bodies.

      In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating government operations
      concerning public service activities, such as control of
      the money supply or taxation schemes, various government
      business regulations, as well as civil service
      administration and related activities;

(b)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of foreign affairs and
      public order and safety activities;

(c)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of government-funded
      social security schemes;

(d)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      public or private education;

(e)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      health and social services;

(f)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      recreational, cultural and sporting operations and events;

(g)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the operations of extra-territorial organisations and
      bodies;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

Dean

Department manager, production and operations/extra-
         territorial organisations

Department manager, production and operations/health

Department manager, production and operations/recreation

Head teacher


Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, education - 1319

General manager, recreation - 1319

Managing director, enterprise/health 1210

Managing director, organisation/extraterritorial
         organisations - 1210


2432  LIBRARIANS AND RELATED INFORMATION PROFESSIONALS
 
     Librarians and related information professionals collect and
store  recorded or published material, and retrieve and provide
information as  requested.

     Tasks include

(a)   organising, developing and maintaining a systematic
      collection of books, periodicals and other printed or
      audio-visually recorded material;

(b)   selecting and recommending acquisitions of books and other
      printed or audio-visually recorded material;
 
(c)   organising, classifying and cataloguing library material;

(d)   organising and administering loan systems and information
      networks;

(e)   retrieving material and providing information to business
      and other users based on the collection itself or on
      library and information-network systems;

(f)   conducting research and analysing or modifying library and
      information services in accordance with changes in users'
      needs;

(g)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Information scientist, business services
  Information scientist, technical information
  Librarian

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

1315  GENERAL MANAGERS OF RESTAURANTS AND HOTELS 
      General managers of restaurants and hotels head small
restaurant or hotel  businesses and, on their own behalf or on
behalf of the proprietor, plan,  direct and coordinate the
activities of the business, with the assistance of  no more than
one other manager and some non-managerial help.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;

(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 General manager, hotel 

 General manager, restaurant 

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Department manager, production and operations/restaurant
         - 1225 

 Managing director, enterprise/hotel - 1210 

3441  CUSTOMS AND BORDER INSPECTORS
 
     Customs and border inspectors check persons and vehicles
crossing  national borders to enforce relevant government rules
and regulations.     Tasks include -

(a)   patrolling national borders and coastal waters to stop
      persons from illegally entering or leaving the country and
      from illegally importing or exporting currency or goods;

(b)   checking travel documents of persons crossing national
      borders to ensure that they have the necessary
      authorizations and certificates;

(c)   inspecting the luggage of persons crossing national borders
      to ensure that it conforms to government rules and
      regulations concerning import or export of goods and
      currencies;

(d)   checking transport documents and freight of vehicles
      crossing national borders to ensure conformity with
      government rules and regulations concerning goods in
      transit and the import and export of goods, and to verify
      that necessary payments have been made;

(e)   when necessary, testifying in a court of law about the
      circumstances and results of investigations carried out;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Inspector, border
  Inspector, customs
  Officer, passport checking

3151  BUILDING AND FIRE INSPECTORS 
     Building and fire inspectors, on behalf of the government
or industrial  and other enterprises, inspect new and existing
houses, industrial plant,  hotels and other buildings and
structures to ensure compliance with building,  grading and
zoning laws and with approved plans, specifications and
standards,  or inspect fire-prevention systems and investigate
fire sites to determine  cause of fire.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising those erecting buildings and other structures on
      the implementation of building, grading and zoning laws,
      as well as other rules concerning quality and safety of
      buildings;

(b)   inspecting buildings and structures during and after
      construction to ensure that they comply with building,
      grading, zoning and safety laws and approved plans,
      specifications and standards, as well as with other rules
      concerning quality and safety of buildings;

(c)   inspecting existing buildings and structures to determine
      whether lack of proper maintenance, housing violations or
      hazardous conditions exist;

(d)   inspecting industrial plant, hotels, cinemas and other
      buildings and structures to detect fire hazards and advise
      on how they can be removed;

(e)   advising on the installation of fire detectors and
      sprinkler systems and the use of materials in the
      construction of buildings and means of transportation to
      reduce risk of fire and extent of damage and danger if fire
      occurs:

(f)   investigating fire sites to determine cause of fire;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Inspector, building
  Inspector, fire
  Specialist, fire prevention

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Fire-fighter - 5161

3449  CUSTOMS, TAX, AND RELATED GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS NOT  ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers customs, tax and related government
associate  professionals not classified elsewhere in Minor group
344, Customs, tax and  related government associate
professionals.     For instance, here should be classified those who examine
places of  business to ensure the use of correct weights and
measures in trade and  monitor the application of price or wage
regulations, referring exceptional or  important cases to Senior
government officials or Managers.     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   examining places of business to ensure the use of correct
      weights and measures in trade;

(b)   monitoring price regulations;

(c)   monitoring wage regulations;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:   Inspector, price	
  Inspector, sanitary
  Inspector wage
  Inspector, weights and measures

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Inspector, occupational safety - 31 52
  Inspector, quality/products - 3152

3417  APPRAISERS, VALUERS AND AUCTIONEERS
 
     Appraisers, valuers and auctioneers value property and
various goods and  assess losses covered by insurance policies,
or sell objects, properties and  goods by auction.     Tasks include -

(a)   determining the quality of value of raw materials, real
      estate, industria equipment, personal and household
      effects, works of art, gems and other objects offered for
      sale to be insured;

(b)   assessing the extent of damage or loss and liabilities of
      insurance companies and underwriters for losses covered by
      insurance policies;

(c)   selling by auction various kinds of property, cars,
      commodities, livestock, art, jewellery and other objects;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Appraiser
  Assessor, claims
  Assessor, insurance
  Auctioneer
  Inspector, claims
  Valuer

4133  TRANSPORT CLERKS
 
     Transport clerks keep records of operational aspects and
coordinate the  timing of train, road and air passenger and
freight transport, and prepare  reports for management.
     Tasks include -

(a)  keeping records of operational aspects, and coordinating the
     timing of passenger and freight transport;

(b)  directing train routings within a division or zone of a
     railway system and keeping related records;
(c)  directing, controlling and keeping records of freight
     handling at a railway yard;
(d)  coordinating and keeping records of operational activities
     concerning road transport, such as allocation and scheduling
     of vehicles and drivers, loading and unloading of vehicles
     and storage of goods in transit;
(e)  coordinating and keeping records of operational activities
     concerning air transport of passengers and freight, such as
     passenger lists and freight manifests;
(f)  preparing reports for management;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Controller, clerical/air transport service
  Controller, clerical/railway service
  Controller, clerical/road transport service
  Dispatcher, clerical/boat
  Dispatcher, clerical/bus
  Dispatcher, clerical/train
  Dispatcher, clerical/truck

3441  CUSTOMS AND BORDER INSPECTORS
 
     Customs and border inspectors check persons and vehicles
crossing  national borders to enforce relevant government rules
and regulations.     Tasks include -

(a)   patrolling national borders and coastal waters to stop
      persons from illegally entering or leaving the country and
      from illegally importing or exporting currency or goods;

(b)   checking travel documents of persons crossing national
      borders to ensure that they have the necessary
      authorizations and certificates;

(c)   inspecting the luggage of persons crossing national borders
      to ensure that it conforms to government rules and
      regulations concerning import or export of goods and
      currencies;

(d)   checking transport documents and freight of vehicles
      crossing national borders to ensure conformity with
      government rules and regulations concerning goods in
      transit and the import and export of goods, and to verify
      that necessary payments have been made;

(e)   when necessary, testifying in a court of law about the
      circumstances and results of investigations carried out;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Inspector, border
  Inspector, customs
  Officer, passport checking

3151  BUILDING AND FIRE INSPECTORS 
     Building and fire inspectors, on behalf of the government
or industrial  and other enterprises, inspect new and existing
houses, industrial plant,  hotels and other buildings and
structures to ensure compliance with building,  grading and
zoning laws and with approved plans, specifications and
standards,  or inspect fire-prevention systems and investigate
fire sites to determine  cause of fire.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising those erecting buildings and other structures on
      the implementation of building, grading and zoning laws,
      as well as other rules concerning quality and safety of
      buildings;

(b)   inspecting buildings and structures during and after
      construction to ensure that they comply with building,
      grading, zoning and safety laws and approved plans,
      specifications and standards, as well as with other rules
      concerning quality and safety of buildings;

(c)   inspecting existing buildings and structures to determine
      whether lack of proper maintenance, housing violations or
      hazardous conditions exist;

(d)   inspecting industrial plant, hotels, cinemas and other
      buildings and structures to detect fire hazards and advise
      on how they can be removed;

(e)   advising on the installation of fire detectors and
      sprinkler systems and the use of materials in the
      construction of buildings and means of transportation to
      reduce risk of fire and extent of damage and danger if fire
      occurs:

(f)   investigating fire sites to determine cause of fire;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Inspector, building
  Inspector, fire
  Specialist, fire prevention

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Fire-fighter - 5161

3449  CUSTOMS, TAX, AND RELATED GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS NOT  ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers customs, tax and related government
associate  professionals not classified elsewhere in Minor group
344, Customs, tax and  related government associate
professionals.     For instance, here should be classified those who examine
places of  business to ensure the use of correct weights and
measures in trade and  monitor the application of price or wage
regulations, referring exceptional or  important cases to Senior
government officials or Managers.     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   examining places of business to ensure the use of correct
      weights and measures in trade;

(b)   monitoring price regulations;

(c)   monitoring wage regulations;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:   Inspector, price	
  Inspector, sanitary
  Inspector wage
  Inspector, weights and measures

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Inspector, occupational safety - 31 52
  Inspector, quality/products - 3152

3417  APPRAISERS, VALUERS AND AUCTIONEERS
 
     Appraisers, valuers and auctioneers value property and
various goods and  assess losses covered by insurance policies,
or sell objects, properties and  goods by auction.     Tasks include -

(a)   determining the quality of value of raw materials, real
      estate, industria equipment, personal and household
      effects, works of art, gems and other objects offered for
      sale to be insured;

(b)   assessing the extent of damage or loss and liabilities of
      insurance companies and underwriters for losses covered by
      insurance policies;

(c)   selling by auction various kinds of property, cars,
      commodities, livestock, art, jewellery and other objects;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Appraiser
  Assessor, claims
  Assessor, insurance
  Auctioneer
  Inspector, claims
  Valuer

3444  GOVERNMENT LICENSING OFFICIALS
 
     Government licensing officials examine applications for
licences to  export or import goods, set up a business, build a
house or other structures,  or to obtain a passport, and
determine whether applications for licences or  passports are to
be approved and whether specific conditions are to be  attached
to the licence, referring exceptional or important cases to
Senior  government officials or Managers.     Tasks include -

(a)   advising individuals on the proper understanding of
      government laws and regulations concerning the type of
      licence required and the conditions attached to such
      licences, and on the public's rights and obligations;

(b)   examining applications and relevant documents and
      determining whether a licence can be granted and the
      conditions which should be attached;

(c)   examining applications and approving the issue of
      passports;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Officer, licensing
  Officer, passport issuing

3152  SAFETY, HEALTH AND QUALITY INSPECTORS 
     Safety, health and quality inspectors, on behalf of the
government or  industrial and other enterprises, inspect places
of work on the grounds of  occupational safety, and safety of
production processes, or of goods produced,  used or sold, and
ensure compliance with health and environment protection  rules
and regulations, as well as with the quality standards and 
specifications of manufacturers.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising employers' and workers' representatives on the
      implementation of government and other rules and
      regulations concerning occupational safety and the working
      environment;

(b)   inspecting places of work to ensure that the working
      environment, machinery and equipment conform to government
      and other rules, regulations and standards;

(c)   inspecting places of work and, by interviews, observations
      and other means, obtaining facts about work practices and
      accidents to determine compliance with safety rules and
      regulations;

(d)   inspecting areas of production, processing, transport,
      handling, storage and sale of products to ensure conformity
      with government and other rules, regulations and standards;

(e)   inspecting finished products or parts for conformity with
      manufacturers' specifications and standards;

(f)   advising enterprises and the general public on the
      implementation of government and other rules and
      regulations concerning hygiene, sanitation, purity and
      grading of primary products, food, drugs, cosmetics and
      similar goods;

(g)   advising producers, operators and those maintaining and
      repairing aircraft, cars and other vehicles on the
      implementation of government and other rules and
      regulations concerning technical standards and conditions
      of vehicles;

(h)   inspecting vehicles and places authorised to maintain and
      repair vehicles to ensure that they conform to technical
      standards and government and other regulations;

(i)   inspecting establishments to ensure that they conform to
      government and other rules and regulations concerning
      emission of pollutants and disposal of dangerous wastes;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Inspector, occupational safety
  Inspector, quality/products
  Inspector, safety and health/consumer protection
  Inspector, safety and health/pollution

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Inspector, sanitary - 3222
  Inspector, wage - 3449

3443  GOVERNMENT SOCIAL BENEFITS OFFICIALS
 
     Government social benefits officials examine applications
for benefits,  in cash or in kind, to determine eligibility and
amount of benefit, referring  exceptional or important cases to
Senior government officials or Managers.     Tasks include -

(a)   advising individuals and organisations on the proper
      understanding of government laws, rules and regulations
      concerning government benefits and the determination and
      disbursement of payments, as well as on the public's rights
      and obligations;

(b)   examining applications and other relevant documents to
      determine type and amount of benefit which individuals
      should receive;

(c)   performing related tasks;

(d)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Officer, pensions
  Officer, social benefits
  Officer, social security claims

3450  POLICE INSPECTORS AND DETECTIVES
 
     Police inspectors and detectives investigate facts and
circumstances  relating to crimes committed and obtain
information not readily available or  apparent concerning
establishments or the circumstances and behaviour of  persons,
mostly in order to prevent crimes.
     
     Tasks include -

(a)   establishing contacts and sources of information about
      crimes planned or committed, in order to prevent crimes or
      identify culprits;

(b)   investigating events and circumstances suspected of being
      criminal in nature to obtain evidence and identify the
      perpetrators;

(c)   establishing contacts and sources of information not
      readily available or apparent concerning establishments or
      the circumstances and behaviour of persons, usually with
      the aim of preventing a crime:

(d)   investigating possible cases of theft of goods, money or
      information from business establishments and of other
      possible cases of unlawful behaviour by customers or
      employees;

(e)   investigating establishments or other circumstances and
      behaviour of persons on behalf of legal authorities or
      clients;

(f)   making arrests or assisting in making arrests, if
      authorised;

(g)   testifying in court of law or reporting to superiors or
      clients about circumstances and results of investigations;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Agent, inquiry/police
  Detective
  Inspector, police

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Inspector-general, police - 1120
  Commissioner, police - 1120
  Police officer - 5162

3449  CUSTOMS, TAX, AND RELATED GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS NOT  ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers customs, tax and related government
associate  professionals not classified elsewhere in Minor group
344, Customs, tax and  related government associate
professionals.     For instance, here should be classified those who examine
places of  business to ensure the use of correct weights and
measures in trade and  monitor the application of price or wage
regulations, referring exceptional or  important cases to Senior
government officials or Managers.     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   examining places of business to ensure the use of correct
      weights and measures in trade;

(b)   monitoring price regulations;

(c)   monitoring wage regulations;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:   Inspector, price	
  Inspector, sanitary
  Inspector wage
  Inspector, weights and measures

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Inspector, occupational safety - 31 52
  Inspector, quality/products - 3152

3152  SAFETY, HEALTH AND QUALITY INSPECTORS 
     Safety, health and quality inspectors, on behalf of the
government or  industrial and other enterprises, inspect places
of work on the grounds of  occupational safety, and safety of
production processes, or of goods produced,  used or sold, and
ensure compliance with health and environment protection  rules
and regulations, as well as with the quality standards and 
specifications of manufacturers.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising employers' and workers' representatives on the
      implementation of government and other rules and
      regulations concerning occupational safety and the working
      environment;

(b)   inspecting places of work to ensure that the working
      environment, machinery and equipment conform to government
      and other rules, regulations and standards;

(c)   inspecting places of work and, by interviews, observations
      and other means, obtaining facts about work practices and
      accidents to determine compliance with safety rules and
      regulations;

(d)   inspecting areas of production, processing, transport,
      handling, storage and sale of products to ensure conformity
      with government and other rules, regulations and standards;

(e)   inspecting finished products or parts for conformity with
      manufacturers' specifications and standards;

(f)   advising enterprises and the general public on the
      implementation of government and other rules and
      regulations concerning hygiene, sanitation, purity and
      grading of primary products, food, drugs, cosmetics and
      similar goods;

(g)   advising producers, operators and those maintaining and
      repairing aircraft, cars and other vehicles on the
      implementation of government and other rules and
      regulations concerning technical standards and conditions
      of vehicles;

(h)   inspecting vehicles and places authorised to maintain and
      repair vehicles to ensure that they conform to technical
      standards and government and other regulations;

(i)   inspecting establishments to ensure that they conform to
      government and other rules and regulations concerning
      emission of pollutants and disposal of dangerous wastes;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Inspector, occupational safety
  Inspector, quality/products
  Inspector, safety and health/consumer protection
  Inspector, safety and health/pollution

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Inspector, sanitary - 3222
  Inspector, wage - 3449

3222  SANITARIANS 
     Sanitarians provide technical assistance and advice on
measures to  restore or improve sanitary conditions, and
supervise their implementation.

     Tasks include -

(a)   inspecting and giving advice on environmental sanitary
      problems and techniques;

(b)   initiating action to maintain or improve hygienic quality
      and prevent pollution of water, air, food or soil;

(c)   promoting preventive and corrective measures such as
      control of disease carrying organisms and of harmful
      substances in the air, hygienic food handling, proper
      disposal of waste and cleaning of public places;

(d)   organising demonstrations, giving lectures and distributing
      material to promote adoption of improved practices and
      techniques;

(e)   collecting data and estimating quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects;

(f)   applying knowledge of hygiene and sanitation principles and
      practices in order to identify and solve problems arising
      in the course of their work;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Inspector, sanitary
  Sanitarian

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Inspector, safety and health - 3152
  Inspector, safety and health/industrial waste-processing
        - 3152
  Inspector, safety and health/pollution 3152

2352  SCHOOL INSPECTORS 
     School inspectors review and examine teachers' work and the
results  achieved in applying a particular curriculum programme
and suggest changes and  improvements, if necessary.

     Tasks include -

(a)   inspecting schools periodically and conferring with the
      administration and teaching staff on questions relating to
      curricula, teaching methods, equipment and other matters;

(b)   visiting class-rooms to observe teaching techniques and to
      evaluate teachers performance, and scholastic results
      obtained;

(c)   preparing reports and making recommendations to educational
      authorities concerning possible changes and improvements
in
      curricula, teaching methods, and other matters;

(d)   per-forming related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Inspector, school

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Head teacher - 1229

3442  GOVERNMENT TAX AND EXCISE OFFICIALS
 
     Government tax and excise officials examine tax returns,
bills of sale  and other documents to determine the type and
amount of taxes, duties and  other types of fees to be paid by
individuals or businesses, referring  exceptional or important
cases to Senior government officials or Managers.     Tasks include -

(a)   advising organisations, enterprises and the general public
      on the proper understanding of government laws, rules and
      regulations concerning the determination and payment of
      taxes, duties and other government fees, and on the
      public's rights and obligations;

(b)   examining tax returns, bills of sale and other relevant
      documents to determine type and amount of taxes, duties and
      other types of fees to be paid;

(c)   performing related tasks;

(d)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Officer, excise	
  Officer, tax

3152  SAFETY, HEALTH AND QUALITY INSPECTORS 
     Safety, health and quality inspectors, on behalf of the
government or  industrial and other enterprises, inspect places
of work on the grounds of  occupational safety, and safety of
production processes, or of goods produced,  used or sold, and
ensure compliance with health and environment protection  rules
and regulations, as well as with the quality standards and 
specifications of manufacturers.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising employers' and workers' representatives on the
      implementation of government and other rules and
      regulations concerning occupational safety and the working
      environment;

(b)   inspecting places of work to ensure that the working
      environment, machinery and equipment conform to government
      and other rules, regulations and standards;

(c)   inspecting places of work and, by interviews, observations
      and other means, obtaining facts about work practices and
      accidents to determine compliance with safety rules and
      regulations;

(d)   inspecting areas of production, processing, transport,
      handling, storage and sale of products to ensure conformity
      with government and other rules, regulations and standards;

(e)   inspecting finished products or parts for conformity with
      manufacturers' specifications and standards;

(f)   advising enterprises and the general public on the
      implementation of government and other rules and
      regulations concerning hygiene, sanitation, purity and
      grading of primary products, food, drugs, cosmetics and
      similar goods;

(g)   advising producers, operators and those maintaining and
      repairing aircraft, cars and other vehicles on the
      implementation of government and other rules and
      regulations concerning technical standards and conditions
      of vehicles;

(h)   inspecting vehicles and places authorised to maintain and
      repair vehicles to ensure that they conform to technical
      standards and government and other regulations;

(i)   inspecting establishments to ensure that they conform to
      government and other rules and regulations concerning
      emission of pollutants and disposal of dangerous wastes;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Inspector, occupational safety
  Inspector, quality/products
  Inspector, safety and health/consumer protection
  Inspector, safety and health/pollution

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Inspector, sanitary - 3222
  Inspector, wage - 3449

3449  CUSTOMS, TAX, AND RELATED GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS NOT  ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers customs, tax and related government
associate  professionals not classified elsewhere in Minor group
344, Customs, tax and  related government associate
professionals.     For instance, here should be classified those who examine
places of  business to ensure the use of correct weights and
measures in trade and  monitor the application of price or wage
regulations, referring exceptional or  important cases to Senior
government officials or Managers.     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   examining places of business to ensure the use of correct
      weights and measures in trade;

(b)   monitoring price regulations;

(c)   monitoring wage regulations;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:   Inspector, price	
  Inspector, sanitary
  Inspector wage
  Inspector, weights and measures

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Inspector, occupational safety - 31 52
  Inspector, quality/products - 3152

1120  SENIOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS 

      Senior government officials advise governments on policy
matters, oversee the interpretation and implementation of
government policies and legislation  by government departments
and agencies, represent their country abroad and act  on its
behalf, or carry out similar tasks in intergovernmental
organisations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   advising national, state, regional or local governments on
      policy matters;

(b)   advising on the preparation of government budgets, laws and
      regulations, including amendments;

(c)   overseeing the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies and legislation by government
      departments and agencies;

(d)   representing their country abroad;
         
(e)   performing similar tasks in intergovernmental
      organisations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Administrator, government
Administrator, intergovernmental organisation
Ambassador
Consul-general
Secretary, government/non legislative

7244  TELEGRAPH AND TELEPHONE INSTALLERS AND SERVICERS
 

     Telegraph and telephone installers and servicers install,
service and  repair telephone and telegraph equipment in central
sites or individual  locations.

     Tasks include -

(a)  installing, servicing and repairing telephone and telegraph
     equipment in central sites or individual locations;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Installer, telephone
  Mechanic, telegraph
  Servicer, telephone
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Fitter, electronics/telecommunications equipment - 7242

3475  ATHLETES, SPORTSPERSONS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Athletes, sportspersons and related associate professionals
participate  in competitive sporting events, conduct sports
training, compile rules  concerning sporting events, and control
the progress of these events.     Tasks include -

(a)   participating in competitive sporting events;

(b)   conducting sports training to develop ability in and
      knowledge of the sport;

(c)   compiling rules concerning the conduct of sporting
      competitions, and controlling the progress of these events;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Athlete
  Boxer
  Coach, sports
  Official, sports
  Wrestler

3340  OTHER TEACHING ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Other teaching associate professionals engage in other
teaching  activities than those connected with primary and
preprimary school level.   They may, for instance, teach how to
fly aircraft, or how to drive motor  vehicles, or railway and
other engines.     Tasks include -

(a)   explaining uses and operations of flying/driving controls;

(b)   accompanying pupils on training flights/drives and
      demonstrating relevant tasks;

(c)   explaining flying/driving regulations and laws;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Instructor, driving
  Instructor, flying

3475  ATHLETES, SPORTSPERSONS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Athletes, sportspersons and related associate professionals
participate  in competitive sporting events, conduct sports
training, compile rules  concerning sporting events, and control
the progress of these events.     Tasks include -

(a)   participating in competitive sporting events;

(b)   conducting sports training to develop ability in and
      knowledge of the sport;

(c)   compiling rules concerning the conduct of sporting
      competitions, and controlling the progress of these events;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Athlete
  Boxer
  Coach, sports
  Official, sports
  Wrestler

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

7134  INSULATION WORKERS
 

     Insulation workers apply and repair insulating materials to
buildings,  boilers, pipes or refrigeration and air-conditioning
equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  applying slabs and sheets of insulating or sound-absorbing
     materials to walls, floors and ceilings of buildings;

(b)  blowing and packing insulating or sound-absorbing materials
     into cavities between walls, floors and ceilings of
     buildings with power-driven machines

(c)  applying insulating materials to exposed surfaces of
     equipment such as boilers, pipes and tanks;

(d)  insulating refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Insulation worker
  Insulation worker, acoustical
  Insulation worker, boiler and pipe
  Insulation worker, refrigeration and air conditioning
        equipment.
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, insulation - 8290

7134  INSULATION WORKERS
 

     Insulation workers apply and repair insulating materials to
buildings,  boilers, pipes or refrigeration and air-conditioning
equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  applying slabs and sheets of insulating or sound-absorbing
     materials to walls, floors and ceilings of buildings;

(b)  blowing and packing insulating or sound-absorbing materials
     into cavities between walls, floors and ceilings of
     buildings with power-driven machines

(c)  applying insulating materials to exposed surfaces of
     equipment such as boilers, pipes and tanks;

(d)  insulating refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Insulation worker
  Insulation worker, acoustical
  Insulation worker, boiler and pipe
  Insulation worker, refrigeration and air conditioning
        equipment.
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, insulation - 8290

3412  INSURANCE REPRESENTATIVES 
     Insurance representatives advise on and sell life, accident,
automobile,  liability, endowment, fire, marine and other types
of insurance to new and  established clients.     Tasks include -

(a)   obtaining information about customers' circumstances
      necessary to determine appropriate type of insurance and
      conditions;

(b)   negotiating with customers to determine type and degree of
      risk for which insurance is derived, extent of coverage and
      terms of payment-

(c)   negotiating and placing reinsurance contracts'.

(d)   advising on, negotiating terms for and placing insurance
      contracts for large or special types of projects,
      installations or risks

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Agent, insurance
   Insurance broker
   Underwriter, insurance

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Assessor, insurance - 3417
       Clerk, insurance - 3432

2444  PHILOLOGISTS, TRANSLATORS AND INTERPRETERS 
     Philologists, translators and interpreters study the origin,
development  and structure of languages, and translate or
interpret from one language into  another.

     Tasks include -

(a)   studying relationships between ancient parent languages and
      modern language groups, tracing the origin and evolution
of
      words, grammar and language forms, and presenting findings;

(b)   advising on or preparing language classification systems,
      grammars, dictionaries and similar materials;

(c)   translating from one language into another and ensuring
      that the correct meaning of the original is retained, that
      legal, technical or scientific works are correctly
      rendered, and that the phraseology and terminology of the
      spirit and style of literary works are conveyed as far as
      possible;

(d)   develop methods for the use of computers and other
      instruments to improve productivity and quality of
      translations;

(e)   interpreting from one language into another, in particular
      at conferences, meetings and similar occasions, and
      ensuring that the correct meaning and, as far as possible,
      the spirit of the original are transmitted;

(f)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Interpreter
  Lexicographer
   Philologist
  Translator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Editor - 2451

7341  COMPOSITORS, TYPESETTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Compositors, typesetters and related workers set and arrange
printing  type by hand or machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting type by hand and printing copies with simple
     machines;

(b)  operating linotype, monotype and typecasting machines;

(c)  arranging set-up of type and spacing material and
     illustration blocks to make pages;

(d)  arranging pages in sequence for printing;

(e)  operating electronic key-boarding machines which enable
     characters to be converted into film, sensitised tape or
     paper for subsequent photo plate-making;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Compositor, printing
  Printer
  Typesetter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Press-operator, printing/cylinder 8251

2412  PERSONNEL AND CAREERS PROFESSIONALS 
     Personnel and careers professionals provide professional
business  services related to personnel policies such as employee
recruitment or  development, occupational analyses and vocational
guidance.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising on and performing personnel functions relating to
      employee recruitment, placement, training, promotion,
      compensation, and employee-management relations or other
      areas of personnel policy;

(b)   studying and analysing jobs performed in an establishment
      by various means, including interviews with workers,
      supervisors and management, and writing detailed post, job
      and occupation descriptions from data obtained;

(c)   preparing occupational information booklets or working on
      occupational classification systems;

(d)   advising and working on the foregoing and other aspects of
      job and occupation analyses in such fields as personnel
      administration, manpower research and planning, training,
      or occupational information and vocational guidance;

(e)   studying and advising individuals on employment
      opportunities, career choices and further education or
      training that may be desirable;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Adviser, careers
  Analyst, job
  Analyst, occupational
  Counsellor, vocational guidance

3472  RADIO, TELEVISION AND OTHER ANNOUNCERS

 
     Radio, television and other announcers read news bulletins,
conduct  interviews, and make other announcements or
introductions on radio, television  or in theatres and other
establishments.     Tasks include -

(a)   reading news bulletins and making other announcements on
      radio or television;

(b)   introducing performing artists or persons being
      interviewed, and making related announcements on radio,
      television, or in theatres, night-clubs and other
      establishments;

(c)   interviewing persons in public, especially on radio and
      television;

(d)   performing related tasks-

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Announcer, radio
  Announcer, television
  Compere
  Interviewer, media
  Newscaster

7123  CONCRETE PLACERS, CONCRETE FINISHERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Concrete placers, concrete finishers and related workers
erect reinforced  concrete frameworks and structures, make forms
for moulding concrete,  reinforce concrete surfaces, cement
openings in walls or casings for wells,  finish and repair cement
surfaces and carry out terrazzo work.
     
     Tasks include -

(a)  constructing and repairing reinforced concrete floors,
     walls, tanks, silos and other concrete structures;

(b)  making shuttering or assembling prefabricated forms for
     moulding concrete;

(c)  cementing openings in walls or casings for wells;

(d)  finishing and smoothing surfaces of concrete structures;

(e)  applying a durable, smooth surfacing composed of cement,
     sand pigment and marble particles to floors, known as a
     terrazzo finish;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Finisher, cement
  Placer, concrete
  Terrazzo worker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, finishing/concrete 8212
  Operator, road surface laying machinery - 8332

9133  HAND-LAUNDERERS AND PRESSERS
 

     Hand-launderers and pressers launder, press or dry-clean
linen and other  textiles by hand.

     Tasks include -

(a)  laundering and pressing linen, clothing, fabrics and similar
     articles by hand in a laundry or other establishment;

(b)  cleaning, by hand and with chemical solutions, clothing,
     fabrics, leather goods and similar articles, in a dry-
     cleaning or other establishment;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Dry-cleaner, hand
  Launderer, hand
  Presser, hand
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, dry-cleaning - 8264
  Machine-operator, pressing/laundry 8264
  Machine-operator, washing/laundry 8264

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

8262  WEAVING- AND KNITTING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Weaving- and knitting-machine operators operate and monitor
weaving and  knitting machines and related equipment used to
produce materials and fabrics.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to weave or knit
     plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpets, garments,
     hosiery or other fabrics or articles;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, knitting
  Machine-operator, net production
  Machine-operator, weaving
  Machine-operator, weaving/carpets
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Knitter - 7432
  Weaver, carpet - 7432 Weaver, cloth - 7432

7435  TEXTILE, LEATHER AND RELATED PATTERN-MAKERS AND CUTTERS
 

     Textile, leather and related pattern-makers and cutters make
patterns and  mark and cut textile, leather and other materials
in the manufacture of  garments, gloves and miscellaneous
products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  drawing and cutting out patterns for making suits, dresses,
     shirts, blouses, gloves, hats and caps and other garments;

(b)  making outlines of patterns on cloth, light leathers or
     other materials to guide cutting;

(c)  cutting material according to pattern outline for making up
     garments, gloves and related items;

(d)  performing pattern-making, marking and cutting tasks in the
     manufacture of other products such as soft furnishings,
     canvas goods and umbrellas;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cutter, garment
 Cutter, glove
  Pattern-maker, fur
  Pattern-maker, garment
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, pattern-making/ textiles - 8269

9141  BUILDING CARETAKERS
 

     Building caretakers take care of apartment houses, hotels,
offices,  churches and other buildings and maintain them in a
clean and orderly  condition.

     Tasks include -

(a)  participating in cleaning, simple repairs and maintenance
     of building interiors;

(b)  tending furnaces and boilers to ensure provision of heat and
     hot water;

(c)  regulating conduct of tenants and visitors in such matters
     as noise abatement or misuse of property;

(d)  providing small services to absent tenants such as accepting
     deliveries on their behalf or providing requested
     information to callers;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Caretaker, building/cleaning
  Concierge, building
  Janitor
  Sexton

7313  JEWELLERY AND PRECIOUS-METAL WORKERS
 

     Jewellery and precious-metal workers make and repair
jewellery and  precious metalware, cut and set gems and engrave
designs on jewellery and  precious metal articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  casting jewellery and other non-ferrous metal articles by
     hand;

(b)  making complete jewellery articles such as rings, brooches
     and bracelets;

(c)  cutting and polishing gems and setting them in jewellery
     articles;

(d)  making and repairing precious metalware;

(e)  rolling and beating precious metals; engraving letters and
     designs on jewellery and precious metalware;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, jewellery
  Goldsmith
  Jeweller
  Setter, gem
  Silversmith

7321  ABRASIVE WHEEL FORMERS, POTTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Abrasive wheel formers, potters and related workers make
pottery,  porcelain ware, bricks, tiles and abrasive wheels.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making articles of pottery and porcelain;

(b)  making clay or plaster-of-Paris moulds;

(c)  forming articles on potter's wheel with hands, or using
     interior or exterior moulding shapes and shaping tools;

(d)  forming articles by casting semi-liquid clay in plaster-of-
     Paris moulds;

(e)  forming bricks and tiles into special shapes by hand;

(f)  making articles by pressing plastic clay into moulds by
     hand;

(g)  operating screw-press or hydraulic press to make products
     from clay dust;

(h)  operating a machine which extrudes moist clay for further
     processing;

(i)  forming abrasive wheels by moulding and pressing abrasive
     mixture;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Caster, pottery and porcelain
  Modeller, pottery and porcelain
  Potter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln operator, brick and tile - 8131
  Kiln operator, pottery and porcelain 8131

3411  SECURITIES AND FINANCE DEALERS AND BROKERS 
     Securities and finance dealers and brokers buy and sell
securities,  stocks, bonds and other financial instruments, and
deal on the foreign  exchange on spot or on futures markets, on
behalf of their own company or for  customers on a commission
basis and recommend transactions to clients or  senior
management.     Tasks include -

(a)   obtaining information about the financial circumstances of
      customers and companies in which investments may be made;

(b)   analysing market trends for securities, bonds, stocks and
      other financial instruments, including foreign exchange;

(c)   informing prospective customers about market conditions and
      prospects;

(d)   advising on and participating in the negotiation of terms
      for, and organisation of, loans and placement of stocks and
      bonds in the financial market to raise capital for
      customers;

(e)   recording and transmitting buy and sell orders for
      securities, stocks, bonds or other financial instruments
      and for foreign exchange for future or immediate delivery;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:  Broker, foreign exchange
  Broker, securities
  Broker, stocks and shares

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:  Clerk, securities - 4122

3475  ATHLETES, SPORTSPERSONS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Athletes, sportspersons and related associate professionals
participate  in competitive sporting events, conduct sports
training, compile rules  concerning sporting events, and control
the progress of these events.     Tasks include -

(a)   participating in competitive sporting events;

(b)   conducting sports training to develop ability in and
      knowledge of the sport;

(c)   compiling rules concerning the conduct of sporting
      competitions, and controlling the progress of these events;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Athlete
  Boxer
  Coach, sports
  Official, sports
  Wrestler

7124  CARPENTERS AND JOINERS
 

     Carpenters and joiners cut, shape, assemble, erect, maintain
and repair various types of wooden structures and fittings.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, altering and repairing structural and other woodwork
     at a work-bench and on a construction site;

(b)  constructing, erecting and installing heavy-framed wooden
     structures on building sites;

(c)  fitting, assembling and altering internal and external
     fixtures of buildings, such as walls, doors, door and window
     frames, facings and panelling;

(d)  making, repairing and fitting scenic equipment for
     theatrical 
     performances, motion picture or television productions;

(e)  constructing, assembling, altering and repairing wooden
     fixtures and fittings in train coaches, aircraft, ships,
     boats, floats, pontoons and other vehicles;

(f)  cutting, shaping, fitting and assembling wooden parts,
     mainly at a work-bench;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carpenter
  Joiner
  Shipwright, wood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cabinet-maker - 7422
  Wheel-wright - 7422

7245  ELECTRICAL LINE INSTALLERS, REPAIRERS AND CABLE JOINTERS
 

     Electrical line installers, repairers and cable jointers
install and  repair electrical lines and joint cables.

     Tasks include -

(a)  installing and repairing overhead and underground electrical
     power and electrical traction lines;

(b)  installing and repairing overhead and underground telephone
     and telegraph lines;

(c)  making joints in overhead and underground cables;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cable worker, telegraph
  Jointer, cable/electric
  Line worker/electric power
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, electrical line installation - 8290

7136  PLUMBERS AND PIPE FITTERS
 

     Plumbers and pipe fitters assemble, fit, install and repair
plumbing  fixtures, or pipes and pipeline systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting, threading, bending, jointing, assembling,
     installing, maintaining and repairing pipes, fittings and
     fixtures of drainage, heating, water supply and sewerage
     systems;

(b)  assembling, installing, maintaining and repairing pipeline
     systems in ships, aircraft, buildings, industrial plant,
     etc.;

(c)  laying clay, concrete or cast-iron pipes in ditches to form
     sewers, drains or water mains, or for other purposes;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, pipe
  Layer, pipe
  Plumber
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, pipe installation 8290

7321  ABRASIVE WHEEL FORMERS, POTTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Abrasive wheel formers, potters and related workers make
pottery,  porcelain ware, bricks, tiles and abrasive wheels.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making articles of pottery and porcelain;

(b)  making clay or plaster-of-Paris moulds;

(c)  forming articles on potter's wheel with hands, or using
     interior or exterior moulding shapes and shaping tools;

(d)  forming articles by casting semi-liquid clay in plaster-of-
     Paris moulds;

(e)  forming bricks and tiles into special shapes by hand;

(f)  making articles by pressing plastic clay into moulds by
     hand;

(g)  operating screw-press or hydraulic press to make products
     from clay dust;

(h)  operating a machine which extrudes moist clay for further
     processing;

(i)  forming abrasive wheels by moulding and pressing abrasive
     mixture;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Caster, pottery and porcelain
  Modeller, pottery and porcelain
  Potter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln operator, brick and tile - 8131
  Kiln operator, pottery and porcelain 8131

2451  AUTHORS, JOURNALISTS AND OTHER WRITERS 
     Authors, journalists and other writers write literary works
for  publication or presentation in dramatic form, appraise
merits of artistic  productions, or literary and other works of
art, or write and edit news,  stories and commentaries.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing literary works for publication or
      presentation in dramatic form;

(b)   writing scripts and continuities and preparing programmes
      for stage, film, radio and television productions;

(c)   appraising and writing about merits of literary, musical
      and other works of art, and about artistic performances;

(d)   collecting, reporting and commenting on news and current
      affairs for publication in newspapers and periodicals, or
      for broadcasting by radio or television;

(e)   interviewing politicians and other public figures at press
      conferences and on other occasions, including individual
      interviews recorded for radio or television;

(f)   writing editorials and selecting, revising, arranging and
      editing submitted articles and other material for
      publication in newspapers and periodicals;

(g)   appraising manuscripts submitted for publication in book
      form, making recommendations thereon and editing or
      supervising editing of the material;

(h)   writing advertising copy promoting particular products or
      services;

(i)   selecting, assembling and preparing publicity material
      about business or other organisations for issue through
      press, radio, television and other media;

(j)   designing and writing brochures, handbooks and similar
      technical publications;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Author
  Copywriter, advertising
  Critic
  Editor
  Journalist
  Writer, technical

2422  JUDGES 
      
     Judges hear and judge cases in courts of justice, instruct
the jury on  points of law, or pronounce judgement.

     Tasks include -

(a)   hearing and weighing arguments and evidence;

(b)   ruling on questions of procedure;

(c)   determining the rights and obligations of the parties
      involved, and, in cases tried by jury, instructing jury
      members on points of law;

(d)   pronouncing judgement;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Chief justice
  Judge
  Magistrate

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Clerk, court - 3432

3475  ATHLETES, SPORTSPERSONS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Athletes, sportspersons and related associate professionals
participate  in competitive sporting events, conduct sports
training, compile rules  concerning sporting events, and control
the progress of these events.     Tasks include -

(a)   participating in competitive sporting events;

(b)   conducting sports training to develop ability in and
      knowledge of the sport;

(c)   compiling rules concerning the conduct of sporting
      competitions, and controlling the progress of these events;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Athlete
  Boxer
  Coach, sports
  Official, sports
  Wrestler

2422  JUDGES 
      
     Judges hear and judge cases in courts of justice, instruct
the jury on  points of law, or pronounce judgement.

     Tasks include -

(a)   hearing and weighing arguments and evidence;

(b)   ruling on questions of procedure;

(c)   determining the rights and obligations of the parties
      involved, and, in cases tried by jury, instructing jury
      members on points of law;

(d)   pronouncing judgement;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Chief justice
  Judge
  Magistrate

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Clerk, court - 3432

3474  CLOWNS, MAGICIANS, ACROBATS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS
 
     Clowns, magicians, acrobats and related associate
professionals entertain  audiences in circuses and other places
by performing a variety of acts.   
   
     Tasks include -

(a)   performing amusing antics and telling funny stories;

(b)   performing tricks of illusion and sleight of hand, and
      feats of hypnotism;

(c)   performing difficult and spectacular acrobatics, and
      gymnastic or juggling feats:

(d)   training and performing with animals;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Acrobat	
  Aerialist
  Clown
  Hypnotist
  Magician

2429  LEGAL PROFESSIONALS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers legal professionals not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 242, Legal professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who perform
legal functions  other than pleading or prosecuting cases or
presiding over judicial  proceedings.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   giving advice on legal aspects of various personal,
      business and administrative problems;

(b)   drawing up legal documents and contracts;

(c)   arranging property transfers;

(d)   determining, by inquest, the causes of any death not
      obviously due to natural causes;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Coroner
  Jurist, except lawyer or judge
  Notary

4111  STENOGRAPHERS AND TYPISTS
 
     Stenographers and typists record oral or written matter in
shorthand and,  using type-, writers, produce documents on paper.
     Tasks include -

(a)  taking dictation and recording other matter in shorthand;
(b)  making transcripts in typewritten form;
(c)  performing limited clerical duties, such as filing or using
     photocopying machines;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Typist
  Typist, stenography

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Secretary, typing - 4115
  Verbatim reporter - 3431

6129  MARKET-ORIENTED ANIMAL PRODUCERS AND RELATED WORKERS NOT
ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED

 
     This unit group covers market-oriented animal producers and
related  workers not classified elsewhere in Minor group 612,
Market-oriented animal  producers and related workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  breeding, raising and tending wild mammals, game
birds and other birds,  snails, non-domesticated fur-giving
animals, snakes and other reptiles, as well  as various insects
and animals used for laboratory tests, for sale or delivery  on
a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations,
zoos and  circuses, or at markets. Here should also be classified
those who look after  or train animals in animal reserves,
stables, zoos, circuses, research  organisations, animal homes,
and similar institutions.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  buying or setting up necessary buildings, open or sheltered
     space, equipment, etc., and maintaining them;

(b)  determining kinds and amounts of animals to be raised;

(c)  purchasing animals, growing or purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(d)  breeding, raising, feeding and tending animals;

(e)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market

(f)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(g)  protecting animals, especially in animal reserves;

(h)  training animals for racing, circus performances and the
     like;

(i)  delivering or marketing products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, bird
  Breeder, game bird
  Breeder, laboratory animal/mice
  Breeder, lion
  Breeder, snail
  Farmer, fur/non-domesticated animals
  Keeper, animal reserve
  Keeper, zoo
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Game-warden - 5169

8340  SHIPS' DECK CREWS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Ship's deck crews and related workers carry out deck duties
on board ship  and similar duties on board other water-borne
craft.

     Tasks include -

(a)  standing look-out watches at sea and when entering or
     leaving harbour or other narrow waters'.
(b)  steering ship according to instructions;

(c)  handling mooring lines on board;

(d)  maintaining and, in some cases, operating ship's equipment,
     cargo gear, rigging, life-saving and fire-fighting
     appliances;

(e)  performing deck and hull cleaning, scraping, painting and
     other maintenance duties as required;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Boatswain
  Sailor
  Seaman, able
  Seawoman, able

6129  MARKET-ORIENTED ANIMAL PRODUCERS AND RELATED WORKERS NOT
ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED

 
     This unit group covers market-oriented animal producers and
related  workers not classified elsewhere in Minor group 612,
Market-oriented animal  producers and related workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  breeding, raising and tending wild mammals, game
birds and other birds,  snails, non-domesticated fur-giving
animals, snakes and other reptiles, as well  as various insects
and animals used for laboratory tests, for sale or delivery  on
a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations,
zoos and  circuses, or at markets. Here should also be classified
those who look after  or train animals in animal reserves,
stables, zoos, circuses, research  organisations, animal homes,
and similar institutions.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  buying or setting up necessary buildings, open or sheltered
     space, equipment, etc., and maintaining them;

(b)  determining kinds and amounts of animals to be raised;

(c)  purchasing animals, growing or purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(d)  breeding, raising, feeding and tending animals;

(e)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market

(f)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(g)  protecting animals, especially in animal reserves;

(h)  training animals for racing, circus performances and the
     like;

(i)  delivering or marketing products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, bird
  Breeder, game bird
  Breeder, laboratory animal/mice
  Breeder, lion
  Breeder, snail
  Farmer, fur/non-domesticated animals
  Keeper, animal reserve
  Keeper, zoo
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Game-warden - 5169

6121  DAIRY AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS
 
     Dairy and livestock producers plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed,  raise and tend livestock such
as cattle, sheep, pigs, goats,  horses, dogs or cats to be used
as working, sporting, or pet animals, as well  as for meat, milk,
hair, hides and other products, for sale or delivery on a 
regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of livestock and livestock
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing animals, producing and purchasing fodder and
     other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in grazing land, buildings, equipment
     and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending livestock;

(e)  milking animals and shearing sheep;

(f)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market;

(g)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(h)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(i)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, cat
  Breeder, dog
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock
  Farmer, dairy
  Farmer, horse raising
  Farmer, livestock
  Farmer, sheep
  Farmer, sheep/astrakhan
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8152  CHEMICAL-HEAT-TREATING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Chemical-heat-treating-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which cook, roast and provide other
types of heat treatment in  chemical and related processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which cook
     materials in order to purify, mix or compound them, give
     them special properties or effect chemical changes in them;

(b)  operating and monitoring ovens, kilns or similar devices
     which heat substances in order to dry them, give them
     special properties or effect chemical changes in them ;

(c)  operating and monitoring driers for the processing of
     chemicals and related materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Kiln-operator, chemical and related processes
  Operator, cement production plant
  Operator, roasting equipment/chemical and related
        processes

8159  CHEMICAL-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-processing-plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 815, Chemical-processing
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment
which treat chemical  solutions with bleaching reagents, produce
coke or gas from coal, extrude and  form natural or synthetic
polymers into synthetic fibres, produce fertilisers,  or extract
and process radioactive materials.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which treats chemical
     solutions with bleaching reagents;

(b)  operating and monitoring plant which produces coke or gas
     from coal;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which extrudes or forms
     natural or synthetic polymers into synthetic fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring fertiliser plant equipment;

(e)  operating and monitoring plant which separates and extracts
     radioactive materials from their ores or processes such
     materials;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, coke production plant
  Operator, fertiliser plant
  Operator, synthetic-fibre production plant

8152  CHEMICAL-HEAT-TREATING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Chemical-heat-treating-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which cook, roast and provide other
types of heat treatment in  chemical and related processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which cook
     materials in order to purify, mix or compound them, give
     them special properties or effect chemical changes in them;

(b)  operating and monitoring ovens, kilns or similar devices
     which heat substances in order to dry them, give them
     special properties or effect chemical changes in them ;

(c)  operating and monitoring driers for the processing of
     chemicals and related materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Kiln-operator, chemical and related processes
  Operator, cement production plant
  Operator, roasting equipment/chemical and related
        processes

8159  CHEMICAL-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-processing-plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 815, Chemical-processing
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment
which treat chemical  solutions with bleaching reagents, produce
coke or gas from coal, extrude and  form natural or synthetic
polymers into synthetic fibres, produce fertilisers,  or extract
and process radioactive materials.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which treats chemical
     solutions with bleaching reagents;

(b)  operating and monitoring plant which produces coke or gas
     from coal;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which extrudes or forms
     natural or synthetic polymers into synthetic fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring fertiliser plant equipment;

(e)  operating and monitoring plant which separates and extracts
     radioactive materials from their ores or processes such
     materials;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, coke production plant
  Operator, fertiliser plant
  Operator, synthetic-fibre production plant

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8139  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers glass and ceramics plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 813, Glass and ceramics
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment used
to mix ingredients for  glass-making or for the preparation of
clay, glaze and abrasives, or which  extrude molten glass in
order to form fibreglass filaments.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which mix ingredients for
     glass-making;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare clay for the
     production of ceramics and bricks;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines for making glaze or
     abrasives

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude molten glass
     to form fibreglass filaments ;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, mixing/clay
  Machine-operator, mixing/glass

8278  BREWERS, WINE AND OTHER BEVERAGE  MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Brewers, wine and other beverage machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which mix, press, or malt and ferment
grains and fruit to make malt  liquors, wine and other alcoholic
or non-alcoholic beverages, except fruit and  vegetable juices.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which process barley and
     other grains used in making distilled and malt liquors, and
     controlling the fermentation process,

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which process grapes and
     other fruit used in making wines, and controlling the
     fermentation process;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which increase or reduce the
     alcohol content of alcoholic beverages;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend wines and
     liquors to obtain desired tastes and flavours;
(e)  operating and monitoring machines which make non-alcoholic
     beverages, except fruit and vegetable juices;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Brewer
  Machine-operator, malting/spirits
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, fruit juice production - 8275
  Taster, wine - 7415

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

7432  WEAVERS, KNITTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

  
     Weavers, knitters and related workers spin and wind yarn by
hand, weave  materials on hand looms, make carpets by using a
knotting technique, knit  garment fabrics by hand or hand-
operated machine or perform similar  manufacturing tasks by hand
or hand-operated machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  spinning and winding yarn by hand;

(b)  drawing warp threads into loom by hand;

(c)  weaving plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpet or
     other fabrics on hand looms;

(d)  making carpets by using a knotting technique;

(e)  knitting garments and other articles on hand-operated
     machine or by hand;

(f)  crocheting or making braid by hand;

(g)  making nets by hand;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Knitter
  Spinner, thread and yarn
  Threader, loom
  Weaver, carpet
  Weaver cloth
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, knitting - 8262
  Machine-operator, weaving - 8262

9322  HAND PACKERS AND OTHER MANUFACTURING LABOURERS
 

     Hand packers and other manufacturing labourers pack
materials or products  by hand and perform a variety of simple
routine tasks connected with  manufacturing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  packing materials or products by hand in boxes, bags,
     cartons, crates, kegs and other containers for shipment or
     storage;

(b)  moving, lifting, carrying, loading, unloading or washing raw
     materials or products, in various manufacturing  industries
     or repair and maintenance establishments;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, manufacturing
  Packer, hand
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, labelling - 8290
  Machine-operator, packing - 8290

6129  MARKET-ORIENTED ANIMAL PRODUCERS AND RELATED WORKERS NOT
ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED

 
     This unit group covers market-oriented animal producers and
related  workers not classified elsewhere in Minor group 612,
Market-oriented animal  producers and related workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  breeding, raising and tending wild mammals, game
birds and other birds,  snails, non-domesticated fur-giving
animals, snakes and other reptiles, as well  as various insects
and animals used for laboratory tests, for sale or delivery  on
a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations,
zoos and  circuses, or at markets. Here should also be classified
those who look after  or train animals in animal reserves,
stables, zoos, circuses, research  organisations, animal homes,
and similar institutions.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  buying or setting up necessary buildings, open or sheltered
     space, equipment, etc., and maintaining them;

(b)  determining kinds and amounts of animals to be raised;

(c)  purchasing animals, growing or purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(d)  breeding, raising, feeding and tending animals;

(e)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market

(f)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(g)  protecting animals, especially in animal reserves;

(h)  training animals for racing, circus performances and the
     like;

(i)  delivering or marketing products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, bird
  Breeder, game bird
  Breeder, laboratory animal/mice
  Breeder, lion
  Breeder, snail
  Farmer, fur/non-domesticated animals
  Keeper, animal reserve
  Keeper, zoo
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Game-warden - 5169

9321  ASSEMBLING LABOURERS
 

     Assembling labourers undertake product-sorting or simple
hand-assembling  of components.

     Tasks include -

(a)  carrying out manual sorting of products or components;

(b)  carrying out simple assembling of components;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Bottle sorter
  Labourer, assembling
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, electrical equipment - 8282
  Assembler, electronic equipment - 8283
  Assembler, leather products - 8286
  Assembler, rubber products - 8284
  Assembler, vehicle - 8281
  Assembler, wood products - 8285

9211  FARM-HANDS AND LABOURERS
 

     Farm-hands and labourers help with farm work by performing
a variety of  simple farming tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging and shovelling to clear ditches or for other
     purposes;

(b)  loading, unloading various crops and other materials;

(c)  raking, pitching and stacking hay;

(d)  watering and weeding;

(e)  picking fruit, vegetables and various plants;

(f)  helping with planting, harvesting and general farmwork;

(g)  feeding, watering, and cleaning animals and keeping their
     quarters clean;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, farm
  Picker, fruit
Some related occupations classified else where:
  Shepherd - 6121
  Farm worker, skilled/field crops - 6111
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock - 6121

9312  CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE LABOURERS:  ROADS, DAMS AND SIMILAR  CONSTRUCTIONS
 

     Construction and maintenance labourers perform simple and
routine tasks  in connection with the building and maintenance
of  roads, dams and similar  constructions.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging and filling holes and trenches, spreading gravel and
     related materials and performing other tasks related to the
     building and maintenance of railway tracks and roads;

(b)  carrying bricks and mortar to bricklayer or helping in other
     ways in the building of dams and similar constructions;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, construction
  Labourer, maintenance/dams

9313  BUILDING CONSTRUCTION LABOURERS
 

     Building construction labourers perform simple and routine
tasks in  connection with various aspects of building
construction

     Tasks include -

(a)  cleaning used building bricks and doing other simple work
     on demolition sites;

(b)  clearing various obstructions as instructed;

(c)  carrying bricks and mortar to bricklayer on construction
     site;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, construction/buildings work
  Labourer, demolition
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Bricklayer, construction - 7122
  Builder, house/traditional materials - 7121
  Demolition worker - 7129

9312  CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE LABOURERS:  ROADS, DAMS AND SIMILAR  CONSTRUCTIONS
 

     Construction and maintenance labourers perform simple and
routine tasks  in connection with the building and maintenance
of  roads, dams and similar  constructions.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging and filling holes and trenches, spreading gravel and
     related materials and performing other tasks related to the
     building and maintenance of railway tracks and roads;

(b)  carrying bricks and mortar to bricklayer or helping in other
     ways in the building of dams and similar constructions;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, construction
  Labourer, maintenance/dams

9313  BUILDING CONSTRUCTION LABOURERS
 

     Building construction labourers perform simple and routine
tasks in  connection with various aspects of building
construction

     Tasks include -

(a)  cleaning used building bricks and doing other simple work
     on demolition sites;

(b)  clearing various obstructions as instructed;

(c)  carrying bricks and mortar to bricklayer on construction
     site;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, construction/buildings work
  Labourer, demolition
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Bricklayer, construction - 7122
  Builder, house/traditional materials - 7121
  Demolition worker - 7129

9312  CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE LABOURERS:  ROADS, DAMS AND SIMILAR  CONSTRUCTIONS
 

     Construction and maintenance labourers perform simple and
routine tasks  in connection with the building and maintenance
of  roads, dams and similar  constructions.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging and filling holes and trenches, spreading gravel and
     related materials and performing other tasks related to the
     building and maintenance of railway tracks and roads;

(b)  carrying bricks and mortar to bricklayer or helping in other
     ways in the building of dams and similar constructions;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, construction
  Labourer, maintenance/dams

9311  MINING AND QUARRYING LABOURERS
 

     Mining and quarrying labourers perform simple and routine
tasks in  connection with mining or quarrying.

     Tasks include -

(a)  removing wood and steel supports from disused workings in
     mines and quarries;

(b)  digging out chalk, clay, gravel or sand from open pits;

(c)  clearing various obstructions as instructed;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, digging/quarry
  Labourer, mining
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Miner - 7111
  Quarrier - 7111

9312  CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE LABOURERS:  ROADS, DAMS AND SIMILAR  CONSTRUCTIONS
 

     Construction and maintenance labourers perform simple and
routine tasks  in connection with the building and maintenance
of  roads, dams and similar  constructions.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging and filling holes and trenches, spreading gravel and
     related materials and performing other tasks related to the
     building and maintenance of railway tracks and roads;

(b)  carrying bricks and mortar to bricklayer or helping in other
     ways in the building of dams and similar constructions;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, construction
  Labourer, maintenance/dams

9211  FARM-HANDS AND LABOURERS
 

     Farm-hands and labourers help with farm work by performing
a variety of  simple farming tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging and shovelling to clear ditches or for other
     purposes;

(b)  loading, unloading various crops and other materials;

(c)  raking, pitching and stacking hay;

(d)  watering and weeding;

(e)  picking fruit, vegetables and various plants;

(f)  helping with planting, harvesting and general farmwork;

(g)  feeding, watering, and cleaning animals and keeping their
     quarters clean;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, farm
  Picker, fruit
Some related occupations classified else where:
  Shepherd - 6121
  Farm worker, skilled/field crops - 6111
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock - 6121

9213  FISHERY, HUNTING AND TRAPPING LABOURERS
 

     Fishery, hunting and trapping labourers, by performing a
variety of  simple tasks, help with work connected with fish and
seafood cultivation, or  with hunting and trapping.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cleaning the sea-bed and feeding fish and mollusca that are
     being cultivated;

(b)  gathering seaweed, sea mosses, clams and other mollusca;

(c)  digging pits and holes, setting traps, keeping watch and
     performing other simple tasks connected with hunting and
     trapping;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, fishery
  Labourer, hunting
  Labourer, trapping
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Hunter - 6154
  Trapper, fur - 6154
  Fishery  worker, skilled/pisciculture - 6151

9212  FORESTRY LABOURERS

 

     Forestry labourers help with work in natural forests or in
forestry  plantations by performing a variety of simple forestry
tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging holes for tree planting

(b)  stacking logs and timber;

(c)  clearing undergrowth in forest stands;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, forestry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Forestry worker, skilled - 6141

9213  FISHERY, HUNTING AND TRAPPING LABOURERS
 

     Fishery, hunting and trapping labourers, by performing a
variety of  simple tasks, help with work connected with fish and
seafood cultivation, or  with hunting and trapping.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cleaning the sea-bed and feeding fish and mollusca that are
     being cultivated;

(b)  gathering seaweed, sea mosses, clams and other mollusca;

(c)  digging pits and holes, setting traps, keeping watch and
     performing other simple tasks connected with hunting and
     trapping;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, fishery
  Labourer, hunting
  Labourer, trapping
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Hunter - 6154
  Trapper, fur - 6154
  Fishery  worker, skilled/pisciculture - 6151

9312  CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE LABOURERS:  ROADS, DAMS AND SIMILAR  CONSTRUCTIONS
 

     Construction and maintenance labourers perform simple and
routine tasks  in connection with the building and maintenance
of  roads, dams and similar  constructions.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging and filling holes and trenches, spreading gravel and
     related materials and performing other tasks related to the
     building and maintenance of railway tracks and roads;

(b)  carrying bricks and mortar to bricklayer or helping in other
     ways in the building of dams and similar constructions;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, construction
  Labourer, maintenance/dams

9322  HAND PACKERS AND OTHER MANUFACTURING LABOURERS
 

     Hand packers and other manufacturing labourers pack
materials or products  by hand and perform a variety of simple
routine tasks connected with  manufacturing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  packing materials or products by hand in boxes, bags,
     cartons, crates, kegs and other containers for shipment or
     storage;

(b)  moving, lifting, carrying, loading, unloading or washing raw
     materials or products, in various manufacturing  industries
     or repair and maintenance establishments;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, manufacturing
  Packer, hand
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, labelling - 8290
  Machine-operator, packing - 8290

9311  MINING AND QUARRYING LABOURERS
 

     Mining and quarrying labourers perform simple and routine
tasks in  connection with mining or quarrying.

     Tasks include -

(a)  removing wood and steel supports from disused workings in
     mines and quarries;

(b)  digging out chalk, clay, gravel or sand from open pits;

(c)  clearing various obstructions as instructed;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, digging/quarry
  Labourer, mining
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Miner - 7111
  Quarrier - 7111

9162  SWEEPERS AND RELATED LABOURERS
 

     Sweepers and related labourers sweep and clean streets,
parks, airports,  stations and other public places or perform odd
jobs.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sweeping streets, parks, airports, stations and similar
     public places;

(b)  unloading coal or wood and putting it into cellars of
     private households or establishments;

(c)  chopping and stacking wood

(d)  carrying water;

(e)  shovelling snow;

(f)  beating dust out of carpets by using a carpet-beater;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Odd-job person
  Sweeper, park
  Sweeper, street

9211  FARM-HANDS AND LABOURERS
 

     Farm-hands and labourers help with farm work by performing
a variety of  simple farming tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging and shovelling to clear ditches or for other
     purposes;

(b)  loading, unloading various crops and other materials;

(c)  raking, pitching and stacking hay;

(d)  watering and weeding;

(e)  picking fruit, vegetables and various plants;

(f)  helping with planting, harvesting and general farmwork;

(g)  feeding, watering, and cleaning animals and keeping their
     quarters clean;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, farm
  Picker, fruit
Some related occupations classified else where:
  Shepherd - 6121
  Farm worker, skilled/field crops - 6111
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock - 6121

9213  FISHERY, HUNTING AND TRAPPING LABOURERS
 

     Fishery, hunting and trapping labourers, by performing a
variety of  simple tasks, help with work connected with fish and
seafood cultivation, or  with hunting and trapping.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cleaning the sea-bed and feeding fish and mollusca that are
     being cultivated;

(b)  gathering seaweed, sea mosses, clams and other mollusca;

(c)  digging pits and holes, setting traps, keeping watch and
     performing other simple tasks connected with hunting and
     trapping;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, fishery
  Labourer, hunting
  Labourer, trapping
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Hunter - 6154
  Trapper, fur - 6154
  Fishery  worker, skilled/pisciculture - 6151

9312  CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE LABOURERS:  ROADS, DAMS AND SIMILAR  CONSTRUCTIONS
 

     Construction and maintenance labourers perform simple and
routine tasks  in connection with the building and maintenance
of  roads, dams and similar  constructions.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging and filling holes and trenches, spreading gravel and
     related materials and performing other tasks related to the
     building and maintenance of railway tracks and roads;

(b)  carrying bricks and mortar to bricklayer or helping in other
     ways in the building of dams and similar constructions;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, construction
  Labourer, maintenance/dams

9322  HAND PACKERS AND OTHER MANUFACTURING LABOURERS
 

     Hand packers and other manufacturing labourers pack
materials or products  by hand and perform a variety of simple
routine tasks connected with  manufacturing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  packing materials or products by hand in boxes, bags,
     cartons, crates, kegs and other containers for shipment or
     storage;

(b)  moving, lifting, carrying, loading, unloading or washing raw
     materials or products, in various manufacturing  industries
     or repair and maintenance establishments;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, manufacturing
  Packer, hand
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, labelling - 8290
  Machine-operator, packing - 8290

7322  GLASS-MAKERS, CUTTERS, GRINDERS AND FINISHERS
 

     Glass-makers, cutters, grinders and finishers blow, mould,
press and roll  shapes from molten glass and cut, grind and
polish glass.

     Tasks include -

(a)  shaping molten glass by means of blowpipe, hand moulding,
     heating and bending;

(b)  heating, moulding and pressing optical glass to make lens
     blanks;

(c)  grinding and polishing lens blanks;

(d)  grinding and bevelling edges of glass;

(e)  cutting sheet glass with hand tools and sawing prisms and
     other shapes from optical glass blocks;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blower, glass
  Cutter, glass
  Finisher, glass
  Grinder, glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Furnace-operator, glass production - 8131

7211  METAL MOULDERS AND COREMAKERS
 

     Metal moulders and coremakers make moulds and cores for
casting metal.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making moulds by hand or by using auxiliary machines on a
     bench for small metal castings, or on the foundry floor or
     in a pit for large castings;

(b)  making cores for use in metal moulds;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Coremaker, metal
  Moulder, metal castings
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, coremaking/metal - 8211

7134  INSULATION WORKERS
 

     Insulation workers apply and repair insulating materials to
buildings,  boilers, pipes or refrigeration and air-conditioning
equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  applying slabs and sheets of insulating or sound-absorbing
     materials to walls, floors and ceilings of buildings;

(b)  blowing and packing insulating or sound-absorbing materials
     into cavities between walls, floors and ceilings of
     buildings with power-driven machines

(c)  applying insulating materials to exposed surfaces of
     equipment such as boilers, pipes and tanks;

(d)  insulating refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Insulation worker
  Insulation worker, acoustical
  Insulation worker, boiler and pipe
  Insulation worker, refrigeration and air conditioning
        equipment.
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, insulation - 8290

9312  CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE LABOURERS:  ROADS, DAMS AND SIMILAR  CONSTRUCTIONS
 

     Construction and maintenance labourers perform simple and
routine tasks  in connection with the building and maintenance
of  roads, dams and similar  constructions.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging and filling holes and trenches, spreading gravel and
     related materials and performing other tasks related to the
     building and maintenance of railway tracks and roads;

(b)  carrying bricks and mortar to bricklayer or helping in other
     ways in the building of dams and similar constructions;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, construction
  Labourer, maintenance/dams

7313  JEWELLERY AND PRECIOUS-METAL WORKERS
 

     Jewellery and precious-metal workers make and repair
jewellery and  precious metalware, cut and set gems and engrave
designs on jewellery and  precious metal articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  casting jewellery and other non-ferrous metal articles by
     hand;

(b)  making complete jewellery articles such as rings, brooches
     and bracelets;

(c)  cutting and polishing gems and setting them in jewellery
     articles;

(d)  making and repairing precious metalware;

(e)  rolling and beating precious metals; engraving letters and
     designs on jewellery and precious metalware;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, jewellery
  Goldsmith
  Jeweller
  Setter, gem
  Silversmith

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8141  WOOD-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Wood-processing-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment for sawing wood, cutting veneer and
making plywood, and otherwise  prepare wood for further use.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring log in-feed and conveyor systems;

(b)  operating and monitoring head saws, resaws and multiblade
     saws to saw logs, cants, flitches, slabs or wings and remove
     rough edges from sawn timber;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut veneer;

(d)  operating and monitoring plywood core-laying machines and
     hot-plate plywood presses;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, band-saw
  Operator, sawmill
  Operator, wood-processing plant
  Press-operator, plywood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Wood seasoner - 7421
  Wood treater - 7421

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8212  CEMENT AND OTHER MINERAL PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Cement and other mineral products machine operators operate
and monitor  extrusion, moulding, mixing, grinding and cutting
machines which manufacture  and finish various precast concrete
and stone products, or which make cast  stone for building
purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring extrusion, moulding, grinding and
     cutting machines which manufacture and finish various
     precast concrete and stone products, such as flagstones,
     fencing posts, moulded pipe sections and trench liners,
     walling and partition slabs, building components, cable
     conduits, fume and dust extraction conduits;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which mix sand, gravel,
     cement and water to make concrete ;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cast-concrete products
  Machine-operator, cast-stone products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln-operator, cement production 8152
  Machine-operator, stone processing 8112

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8240  WOOD-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Wood-products machine operators operate and monitor
automatic or  semi-automatic woodworking machines which perform
repetitive work and are  always set up by woodworking-machine
setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more previously set up
     machines for sawing, shaping, boring, planing, turning or
     carving wood;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, carving/wood
  Machine-operator, furniture production
  Machine-operator, wood products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, woodworking machine - 7423
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine - 7423

9133  HAND-LAUNDERERS AND PRESSERS
 

     Hand-launderers and pressers launder, press or dry-clean
linen and other  textiles by hand.

     Tasks include -

(a)  laundering and pressing linen, clothing, fabrics and similar
     articles by hand in a laundry or other establishment;

(b)  cleaning, by hand and with chemical solutions, clothing,
     fabrics, leather goods and similar articles, in a dry-
     cleaning or other establishment;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Dry-cleaner, hand
  Launderer, hand
  Presser, hand
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, dry-cleaning - 8264
  Machine-operator, pressing/laundry 8264
  Machine-operator, washing/laundry 8264

2421  LAWYERS 
   
     Lawyers give clients legal advice on a wide variety Of
subjects and plead  cases or conduct prosecutions in courts of
justice, or instruct barristers or  advocates to plead in higher
courts of justice.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research on legal theories and principles and
      their relationship to specific laws or court judgements;

(b)   drafting legislation and preparing government regulations
      based on existing laws;

(c)   giving clients - including the Government - legal advice
on
      a wide variety of subjects and undertaking legal business
      on clients' behalf;

(d)   assisting clients to negotiate settlements in matters which
      involve legal disputes;

(e)   examining the circumstances of disputes or reported crimes
      to ascertain facts and their legal implications;

(f)   preparing pleadings or cases for plaintiff or defendant and
      conducting them in court;

(g)   representing clients in the lower court or instructing
      barristers or advocates to plead in higher courts of
      justice;

(h)   accepting briefs and pleading in the higher court;

(i)   acting as prosecutor on behalf of the Government in
      criminal cases;

(j)   drawing up legal documents;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Advocate
  Attorney
  Barrister
  Lawyer
  Prosecutor
  Solicitor

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Clerk, conveyancing - 3432
  Clerk, law - 3432

3480  RELIGIOUS ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Religious associate professionals undertake religious works,
devote their  lives to contemplative prayer or meditation, and
preach and propagate the  teachings of their particular religion.     Tasks include -

(a)   undertaking religious works;

(b)   living as a member of a separate community, and observing
      its rules and practices;

(c)   devoting their lives to contemplative prayer or meditation;

(d)   preaching and propagating the teachings of a particular
      religious faith;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Monk, associate professional
  Nun, associate professional
  Preacher, lay
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Bonze - 2460	
  Imam - 2460
  Minister, religion - 2460
  Monk, professional - 2460
  Nun, professional - 2460
  Poojari - 2460
  Priest - 2460
  Rabbi- 2460

7132  FLOOR LAYERS AND TILE SETTERS
 

     Floor layers and tile setters install, maintain and repair
parquet and  other kinds of flooring, or they cover floors, walls
and other surfaces with tiles or mosaic panels for decorative or
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing floor areas for covering with parquet, tiles or
     other materials;

(b)  assembling parquetry pieces or other materials and laying
     them on floors according to design and other specifications;

(c)  preparing wall areas for covering with tiles or other
     materials for decorative or other purposes such as
     acoustical insulation;

(d)  setting tiles and constructing and laying mosaic panels to
     walls, floors and other surfaces;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Parquetry worker 
 Setter, marble 
 Setter, tile

7129  BUILDING FRAME AND RELATED TRADES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers building frame and related trades
workers not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 712, Building
frame and related trades  workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who perform
miscellaneous  construction and building maintenance tasks.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  performing miscellaneous construction and building
     maintenance work on structures such as office buildings,
     apartment houses, factories and similar establishments in
     good repair;

(b)  performing construction, maintenance or repair work at
     unusual heights;

(c)  erecting temporary metal or wooden scaffolding on building
     sites;

(d)  demolishing buildings and other structures;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Demolition worker
  Housebuilder, non-traditional materials
  Scaffolder
  Steeplejack
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Labourer, construction/buildings 9313
  Labourer, demolition - 9313

7132  FLOOR LAYERS AND TILE SETTERS
 

     Floor layers and tile setters install, maintain and repair
parquet and  other kinds of flooring, or they cover floors, walls
and other surfaces with tiles or mosaic panels for decorative or
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing floor areas for covering with parquet, tiles or
     other materials;

(b)  assembling parquetry pieces or other materials and laying
     them on floors according to design and other specifications;

(c)  preparing wall areas for covering with tiles or other
     materials for decorative or other purposes such as
     acoustical insulation;

(d)  setting tiles and constructing and laying mosaic panels to
     walls, floors and other surfaces;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Parquetry worker 
 Setter, marble 
 Setter, tile

7136  PLUMBERS AND PIPE FITTERS
 

     Plumbers and pipe fitters assemble, fit, install and repair
plumbing  fixtures, or pipes and pipeline systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting, threading, bending, jointing, assembling,
     installing, maintaining and repairing pipes, fittings and
     fixtures of drainage, heating, water supply and sewerage
     systems;

(b)  assembling, installing, maintaining and repairing pipeline
     systems in ships, aircraft, buildings, industrial plant,
     etc.;

(c)  laying clay, concrete or cast-iron pipes in ditches to form
     sewers, drains or water mains, or for other purposes;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, pipe
  Layer, pipe
  Plumber
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, pipe installation 8290

7132  FLOOR LAYERS AND TILE SETTERS
 

     Floor layers and tile setters install, maintain and repair
parquet and  other kinds of flooring, or they cover floors, walls
and other surfaces with tiles or mosaic panels for decorative or
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing floor areas for covering with parquet, tiles or
     other materials;

(b)  assembling parquetry pieces or other materials and laying
     them on floors according to design and other specifications;

(c)  preparing wall areas for covering with tiles or other
     materials for decorative or other purposes such as
     acoustical insulation;

(d)  setting tiles and constructing and laying mosaic panels to
     walls, floors and other surfaces;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Parquetry worker 
 Setter, marble 
 Setter, tile

7245  ELECTRICAL LINE INSTALLERS, REPAIRERS AND CABLE JOINTERS
 

     Electrical line installers, repairers and cable jointers
install and  repair electrical lines and joint cables.

     Tasks include -

(a)  installing and repairing overhead and underground electrical
     power and electrical traction lines;

(b)  installing and repairing overhead and underground telephone
     and telegraph lines;

(c)  making joints in overhead and underground cables;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cable worker, telegraph
  Jointer, cable/electric
  Line worker/electric power
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, electrical line installation - 8290

7132  FLOOR LAYERS AND TILE SETTERS
 

     Floor layers and tile setters install, maintain and repair
parquet and  other kinds of flooring, or they cover floors, walls
and other surfaces with tiles or mosaic panels for decorative or
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing floor areas for covering with parquet, tiles or
     other materials;

(b)  assembling parquetry pieces or other materials and laying
     them on floors according to design and other specifications;

(c)  preparing wall areas for covering with tiles or other
     materials for decorative or other purposes such as
     acoustical insulation;

(d)  setting tiles and constructing and laying mosaic panels to
     walls, floors and other surfaces;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Parquetry worker 
 Setter, marble 
 Setter, tile

7136  PLUMBERS AND PIPE FITTERS
 

     Plumbers and pipe fitters assemble, fit, install and repair
plumbing  fixtures, or pipes and pipeline systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting, threading, bending, jointing, assembling,
     installing, maintaining and repairing pipes, fittings and
     fixtures of drainage, heating, water supply and sewerage
     systems;

(b)  assembling, installing, maintaining and repairing pipeline
     systems in ships, aircraft, buildings, industrial plant,
     etc.;

(c)  laying clay, concrete or cast-iron pipes in ditches to form
     sewers, drains or water mains, or for other purposes;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, pipe
  Layer, pipe
  Plumber
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, pipe installation 8290

7341  COMPOSITORS, TYPESETTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Compositors, typesetters and related workers set and arrange
printing  type by hand or machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting type by hand and printing copies with simple
     machines;

(b)  operating linotype, monotype and typecasting machines;

(c)  arranging set-up of type and spacing material and
     illustration blocks to make pages;

(d)  arranging pages in sequence for printing;

(e)  operating electronic key-boarding machines which enable
     characters to be converted into film, sensitised tape or
     paper for subsequent photo plate-making;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Compositor, printing
  Printer
  Typesetter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Press-operator, printing/cylinder 8251

1141  SENIOR OFFICIALS OF POLITICAL-PARTY ORGANISATIONS 
      Senior officials of political-party organisations determine
and formulate  policies, rules and regulations of political-party
organisations, direct their  application, represent these
organisations and act on their behalf.

      Tasks include -

(a)   determining and formulating the political-party's policies,
      rules and regulations;

(b)   negotiating on behalf of the political party and its
      members;

(c)   planning and organising campaigns, on behalf of the
      political party, for the e lection of its candidates to
      political offices;

(d)   planning and organising campaigns to recruit and educate
      political party members;

(e)   planning, organising and directing sections charged with
      implementing the political-party's policies, rules and
      regulations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Leader, political party

President, political party

Senior official, political party

1142  SENIOR OFFICIALS OF EMPLOYERS', WORKERS' AND OTHER
ECONOMIC-INTEREST  ORGANISATIONS 
      Senior officials of employers', workers' and other
economic-interest  organisations determine and formulate
policies, rules and regulations of their  respective
organisations, direct their application, represent these 
organisations and act on their behalf.

      Tasks include -

(a)   deciding and formulating the organisation's policies, rules
      and regulations;

(b)   negotiating on behalf of the organisation and its members;

(c)   promoting the interests of the organisation and its members
      before the legislature, government or general public;

(d)   planning and organising campaigns to recruit and educate
      members;

(e)   planning, organising and directing sections charged with
      implementing the organisation's policies, rules and
      regulations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Secretary-general, employers' organisation
Secretary-general, trade union
Senior official, employers' organisation
Senior official, trade union

2310  COLLEGE, UNIVERSITY AND HIGHER EDUCATION TEACHING
PROFESSIONALS 
     College, university and higher education teaching
professionals teach  their subjects at some or all levels after
the termination of secondary  education, conduct research and
improve or develop concepts, theories and  operational methods,
and prepare scholarly papers and books.

     Tasks include -

(a)   designing and modifying curricula and preparing courses of
      study in accordance with requirements;

(b)   delivering lectures and conducting tutorials, seminars and
      laboratory experiments;

(c)   stimulating discussion and independent thought among
      students;

(d)   supervising, where appropriate, experimental and practical
      work undertaken by students;

(e)   administering, evaluating and marking examination papers
      and tests;

(f)   directing research of post-graduate students or other
      members of department;

(g)   researching into and developing concepts, theories and
      operational methods for application in industrial and other
      fields;

(h)   preparing scholarly books, papers or articles;

(i)   attending conferences and seminars;

(j)   participating in decision-making processes concerning
      college or university departmental, budgetary and other
      policy matters;

(k)   assisting with extra-curricular activities, such as
      debating societies;

(l)   performing related tasks;

(m)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Lecturer, college
  Lecturer, university
  Professor, college
  Professor, university
  Reader, university

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Chancellor, university - 1210
  Dean - 1229
  Head, college faculty - 1229

7324  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED DECORATIVE PAINTERS
 

     Glass, ceramics and related decorative painters decorate
articles made of  wood, metal, textiles, glass, ceramics and
other materials, and plan, lay out  and paint letters and designs
to make signs.

     Tasks include -

(a)  painting designs on articles with a brush, by spraying, or
     by transferring designs using stencils, transfers, rubber
     stamps and other means;

(b)  applying, for decorative purposes, paint, glaze, enamel,
     stain, varnish, lacquer and similar materials on articles
     by spraying or dipping;

(c)  coating mirror glass with silver solutions;

(d)  laying out and painting letters and designs to make signs;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, glass
  Painter, decorative
  Sign-writer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, painting/ceramics - 8131
  Machine-operator, painting/glass - 8131
  Painter, building - 7141
  Painter, manufactured articles - 7142
  Painter, vehicle - 7142

2444  PHILOLOGISTS, TRANSLATORS AND INTERPRETERS 
     Philologists, translators and interpreters study the origin,
development  and structure of languages, and translate or
interpret from one language into  another.

     Tasks include -

(a)   studying relationships between ancient parent languages and
      modern language groups, tracing the origin and evolution
of
      words, grammar and language forms, and presenting findings;

(b)   advising on or preparing language classification systems,
      grammars, dictionaries and similar materials;

(c)   translating from one language into another and ensuring
      that the correct meaning of the original is retained, that
      legal, technical or scientific works are correctly
      rendered, and that the phraseology and terminology of the
      spirit and style of literary works are conveyed as far as
      possible;

(d)   develop methods for the use of computers and other
      instruments to improve productivity and quality of
      translations;

(e)   interpreting from one language into another, in particular
      at conferences, meetings and similar occasions, and
      ensuring that the correct meaning and, as far as possible,
      the spirit of the original are transmitted;

(f)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Interpreter
  Lexicographer
   Philologist
  Translator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Editor - 2451

2432  LIBRARIANS AND RELATED INFORMATION PROFESSIONALS
 
     Librarians and related information professionals collect and
store  recorded or published material, and retrieve and provide
information as  requested.

     Tasks include

(a)   organising, developing and maintaining a systematic
      collection of books, periodicals and other printed or
      audio-visually recorded material;

(b)   selecting and recommending acquisitions of books and other
      printed or audio-visually recorded material;
 
(c)   organising, classifying and cataloguing library material;

(d)   organising and administering loan systems and information
      networks;

(e)   retrieving material and providing information to business
      and other users based on the collection itself or on
      library and information-network systems;

(f)   conducting research and analysing or modifying library and
      information services in accordance with changes in users'
      needs;

(g)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Information scientist, business services
  Information scientist, technical information
  Librarian

5169  PROTECTIVE SERVICES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers protective services workers not
classified  elsewhere in Minor group 516, Protective services
workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who patrol
buildings and  areas to prevent illegal entry, theft, violence
and other unlawful acts, and  who, if necessary, use force to
prevent such acts and apprehend perpetrators,  as well as those
who act as bodyguards, life-guards or game-wardens.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  patrolling buildings and areas to prevent theft, violence,
     infractions of rules or other irregularities;

(b)  if necessary, exercising the right to use force and to 
     apprehend.perpetrators;

(c)  performing the duties of a bodyguard;

(d)  patrolling beaches and swimming pools to prevent accidents
     and to rescue bathers from drowning;

(e)  patrolling natural reserves, game parks, forest areas and
     enclosures to prevent theft and killing of game;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Bodyguard
  Game-warden
  Life-guard
  Patrolman, security
  Patrolwoman, security
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Doorkeeper - 91 52
  Guard, museum - 9152
  Watchman - 9152
  Watchwoman - 9152

8340  SHIPS' DECK CREWS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Ship's deck crews and related workers carry out deck duties
on board ship  and similar duties on board other water-borne
craft.

     Tasks include -

(a)  standing look-out watches at sea and when entering or
     leaving harbour or other narrow waters'.
(b)  steering ship according to instructions;

(c)  handling mooring lines on board;

(d)  maintaining and, in some cases, operating ship's equipment,
     cargo gear, rigging, life-saving and fire-fighting
     appliances;

(e)  performing deck and hull cleaning, scraping, painting and
     other maintenance duties as required;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Boatswain
  Sailor
  Seaman, able
  Seawoman, able

7245  ELECTRICAL LINE INSTALLERS, REPAIRERS AND CABLE JOINTERS
 

     Electrical line installers, repairers and cable jointers
install and  repair electrical lines and joint cables.

     Tasks include -

(a)  installing and repairing overhead and underground electrical
     power and electrical traction lines;

(b)  installing and repairing overhead and underground telephone
     and telegraph lines;

(c)  making joints in overhead and underground cables;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cable worker, telegraph
  Jointer, cable/electric
  Line worker/electric power
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, electrical line installation - 8290

2444  PHILOLOGISTS, TRANSLATORS AND INTERPRETERS 
     Philologists, translators and interpreters study the origin,
development  and structure of languages, and translate or
interpret from one language into  another.

     Tasks include -

(a)   studying relationships between ancient parent languages and
      modern language groups, tracing the origin and evolution
of
      words, grammar and language forms, and presenting findings;

(b)   advising on or preparing language classification systems,
      grammars, dictionaries and similar materials;

(c)   translating from one language into another and ensuring
      that the correct meaning of the original is retained, that
      legal, technical or scientific works are correctly
      rendered, and that the phraseology and terminology of the
      spirit and style of literary works are conveyed as far as
      possible;

(d)   develop methods for the use of computers and other
      instruments to improve productivity and quality of
      translations;

(e)   interpreting from one language into another, in particular
      at conferences, meetings and similar occasions, and
      ensuring that the correct meaning and, as far as possible,
      the spirit of the original are transmitted;

(f)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Interpreter
  Lexicographer
   Philologist
  Translator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Editor - 2451

7341  COMPOSITORS, TYPESETTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Compositors, typesetters and related workers set and arrange
printing  type by hand or machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting type by hand and printing copies with simple
     machines;

(b)  operating linotype, monotype and typecasting machines;

(c)  arranging set-up of type and spacing material and
     illustration blocks to make pages;

(d)  arranging pages in sequence for printing;

(e)  operating electronic key-boarding machines which enable
     characters to be converted into film, sensitised tape or
     paper for subsequent photo plate-making;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Compositor, printing
  Printer
  Typesetter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Press-operator, printing/cylinder 8251

9333  FREIGHT HANDLERS
 

     Freight handlers carry out tasks such as packing, carrying,
loading and  unloading furniture and other household items, or
loading and unloading ship  and aircraft cargoes and other
freight, or carrying and stacking goods in  various warehouses.

     Tasks include -

(a)  packing office or household furniture, machines, appliances
     and related goods to be transported from one place to
     another;

(b)  carrying goods to be loaded on or unloaded from vans,
     trucks, wagons, ships, or aircraft;

(c)  loading and unloading grain, coal, sand and similar goods
     by placing them on conveyor-belts, pipes, etc. ;

(d)  connecting hoses between main shore installation pipes and
     tanks of barges, tankers and other ships to load and unload
     petroleum, liquefied gases and other liquids;

(e)  carrying and stacking goods in warehouses and similar
     establishments;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Handler, freight
Some related occupations classified else where:
  Operator, crane - 8333
  Operator, truck/lifting - 8334

8333  CRANE, HOIST AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Crane, hoist and related plant operators operate and monitor
cranes and  other hoisting equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mobile or stationary cranes with
     mobile or fixed jib or boom ;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment for hoisting, lowering
     or raising men and materials on construction site or in
     mine;

(c)  operating and monitoring ski-lifts and similar equipment;

(d)  operating and monitoring machinery used to haul ferry or
     barge with goods, passengers and vehicles across short
     stretches of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machinery to open and close bridge
     for the passage of road and water traffic;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, crane
  Operator, hoist

7222  TOOL-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Tool-makers and related workers make and repair tools,
sports guns,  locks, dies, patterns and other metal articles, as
well as make engines or  machinery components, and parts thereof,
using hand and machine tools to work  metal to fine tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, maintaining and repairing dies, jigs, gauges and
     fixtures, using hand tools and various kinds of machine
     tools;

(b)  making engines or machinery components, and parts thereof;

(c)  fitting and assembling parts to make and repair jigs,
     fixtures and gauges;

(d)  repairing and modifying sports guns and other small arms;

(e)  making, fitting, assembling, repairing and installing lock
     parts and locks;

(f)  making and repairing metal patterns for preparation of
     foundry moulds;

(g)  laying out lines and reference points on metal stock to
     guide other workers who cut, turn, mill, grind or otherwise
     shape metal;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Gunsmith
  Locksmith
  Toolmaker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator tool production - 8211

7214  STRUCTURAL-METAL PREPARERS AND ERECTORS
 

     Structural-metal preparers and erectors shape, assemble and
erect heavy  metal girders and plates to form structures and
frameworks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  marking metal members as a guide when drilling, cutting, and
     shaping them for use in buildings, ships and other
     structures;

(b)  drilling, cutting and shaping structural steel in a
     workshop;

(c)  erecting steel members for buildings, bridges and other
     constructions;

(d)  assembling and erecting the framework and other metal parts
     of ships' structures;

(e)  shaping and fitting structural-steel plates of ships under
     construction or repair;

(f)  riveting structural-metal members by hand, machine or
     pneumatic riveter;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Erector, structural metal
  Preparer, structural metal
  Riveter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, rivet production 8211

6141  FORESTRY WORKERS AND LOGGERS
 
     Forestry workers and loggers carry out the necessary
operations to  cultivate, conserve and exploit forests, for sale
or delivery of forestry  products on a regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a) establishing and caring for forest stands;

(b)  locating trees to be felled and estimating volume of timber;

(c)  trimming, topping and felling trees and sawing them into
     logs;

(d)  shaping rough wooden products from logs at felling site;

(e)  stacking logs, loading them in chutes or floating them down
     rivers;

(f)  keeping watch to detect forest fires and participating in
     firefighting operations;

(g)  delivering or marketing forestry products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Climber, logging
  Cruiser, timber
  Feller-bucker, tree
  Forestry worker, skilled
  Logger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/forestry
        - 1221
  General manager, forestry - 1311
  Labourer, forestry - 9212
  Managing director, enterprise/forestry - 1210
  Operator, forestry machinery - 8331

9333  FREIGHT HANDLERS
 

     Freight handlers carry out tasks such as packing, carrying,
loading and  unloading furniture and other household items, or
loading and unloading ship  and aircraft cargoes and other
freight, or carrying and stacking goods in  various warehouses.

     Tasks include -

(a)  packing office or household furniture, machines, appliances
     and related goods to be transported from one place to
     another;

(b)  carrying goods to be loaded on or unloaded from vans,
     trucks, wagons, ships, or aircraft;

(c)  loading and unloading grain, coal, sand and similar goods
     by placing them on conveyor-belts, pipes, etc. ;

(d)  connecting hoses between main shore installation pipes and
     tanks of barges, tankers and other ships to load and unload
     petroleum, liquefied gases and other liquids;

(e)  carrying and stacking goods in warehouses and similar
     establishments;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Handler, freight
Some related occupations classified else where:
  Operator, crane - 8333
  Operator, truck/lifting - 8334

6141  FORESTRY WORKERS AND LOGGERS
 
     Forestry workers and loggers carry out the necessary
operations to  cultivate, conserve and exploit forests, for sale
or delivery of forestry  products on a regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a) establishing and caring for forest stands;

(b)  locating trees to be felled and estimating volume of timber;

(c)  trimming, topping and felling trees and sawing them into
     logs;

(d)  shaping rough wooden products from logs at felling site;

(e)  stacking logs, loading them in chutes or floating them down
     rivers;

(f)  keeping watch to detect forest fires and participating in
     firefighting operations;

(g)  delivering or marketing forestry products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Climber, logging
  Cruiser, timber
  Feller-bucker, tree
  Forestry worker, skilled
  Logger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/forestry
        - 1221
  General manager, forestry - 1311
  Labourer, forestry - 9212
  Managing director, enterprise/forestry - 1210
  Operator, forestry machinery - 8331

8212  CEMENT AND OTHER MINERAL PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Cement and other mineral products machine operators operate
and monitor  extrusion, moulding, mixing, grinding and cutting
machines which manufacture  and finish various precast concrete
and stone products, or which make cast  stone for building
purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring extrusion, moulding, grinding and
     cutting machines which manufacture and finish various
     precast concrete and stone products, such as flagstones,
     fencing posts, moulded pipe sections and trench liners,
     walling and partition slabs, building components, cable
     conduits, fume and dust extraction conduits;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which mix sand, gravel,
     cement and water to make concrete ;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cast-concrete products
  Machine-operator, cast-stone products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln-operator, cement production 8152
  Machine-operator, stone processing 8112

8222  AMMUNITION- AND EXPLOSIVE-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Ammunition- and explosive-products machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which process a variety of chemicals and
other ingredients in the  production of ammunition and
explosives.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which mix, blend and
     otherwise process chemicals to produce explosive substances
     such as nitrocellulose, gelignite and various types of
     propellants;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which make fuses for
     explosives and pyrotechnics;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which assemble and load
     shells, bombs, rockets, mines and similar devices;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, ammunition products
  Machine-operator, explosives production
  Machine-operator, match production

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8212  CEMENT AND OTHER MINERAL PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Cement and other mineral products machine operators operate
and monitor  extrusion, moulding, mixing, grinding and cutting
machines which manufacture  and finish various precast concrete
and stone products, or which make cast  stone for building
purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring extrusion, moulding, grinding and
     cutting machines which manufacture and finish various
     precast concrete and stone products, such as flagstones,
     fencing posts, moulded pipe sections and trench liners,
     walling and partition slabs, building components, cable
     conduits, fume and dust extraction conduits;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which mix sand, gravel,
     cement and water to make concrete ;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cast-concrete products
  Machine-operator, cast-stone products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln-operator, cement production 8152
  Machine-operator, stone processing 8112

8281  MECHANICAL-MACHINERY ASSEMBLERS
 

     Mechanical-machinery assemblers assemble the components or
parts of  mechanical machinery, according to strictly laid down
procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts of mechanical machinery,
     engines and vehicles, according to strictly laid down
     procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, aircraft
  Assembler, mechanical machinery
  Assembler, vehicle
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Operator, assembly-line/automated 8171

8171  AUTOMATED-ASSEMBLY-LINE OPERATORS
 

     Automated-assembly-line operators operate and monitor
automated or  semi-automated assembly lines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring automated or semi-automated
     assembly lines;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, assembly-line/automated.

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8274  BAKED-GOODS, CEREAL AND CHOCOLATE-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Baked-goods, cereal and chocolate-products machine operators
operate and  monitor mixing, blending, shaping and baking
machines which produce cereals,  bread, pastry, pasta, chocolate
and related products from flour, cocoa and  other ingredients.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which mix and blend flour
     with other ingredients to prepare dough for the production
     of bread, pastries, pasta and related products;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude and shape
     dough for the production of bread, pastries, pasta and
     related products;

(c)  operating and monitoring ovens used for baking bread,
     pastries, pasta and related products;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines used for making cereals-'

(e)  operating and monitoring machines used for making chocolate
     and confectionery;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, bread production
  Machine-operator, chocolate production
  Machine-operator, confectionery production
  Machine-operator, pastry production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Baker - 7412
  Maker, chocolate - 7412

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8240  WOOD-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Wood-products machine operators operate and monitor
automatic or  semi-automatic woodworking machines which perform
repetitive work and are  always set up by woodworking-machine
setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more previously set up
     machines for sawing, shaping, boring, planing, turning or
     carving wood;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, carving/wood
  Machine-operator, furniture production
  Machine-operator, wood products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, woodworking machine - 7423
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine - 7423

8275  FRUIT-, VEGETABLE- AND NUT-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fruit-, vegetable- and nut-processing machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which extract juice from fruit and
vegetables or oil from  oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit, and
which process fruit, vegetables and  nuts by drying, cooking,
canning or freezing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which extract juice from
     fruit and vegetables by heating or pressing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     oil from oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make margarine and
     similar products from animal and vegetable oils;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare fruit,
     vegetables and nuts for further processing ;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which dry, cook, can,
     freeze or otherwise process fruit, vegetables and nuts

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fruit processing
  Machine-operator, vegetable processing
  Press-operator, edible oils
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Expeller, oil - 7414
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production - 8278
  Preserver, fruit - 7414
  Preserver, vegetable - 7414

8264  BLEACHING-, DYEING- AND CLEANING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 


     Bleaching-, dyeing- and cleaning-machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which bleach, dye, wash and otherwise treat
fibres, yarn, or cloth or dry clean textile, fur and leather
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which treat textile
     products to make them lighter in colour or to give them a
     specific colour;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which wash or dry-clean
     textile, fur or leather products to remove dirt, impurities,
     excess chemicals or natural gum;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which shrink cloth or
     strengthen the weave by interlocking the fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which impregnate textiles
     with chemicals to render them waterproof;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which treat silk to give
     it body and weight;

(f)  operating and monitoring machines which press, stretch, or
     impart lustre, or other type of finish to textiles;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dry-cleaning
  Machine-operator, dyeing/textile fibres
  Machine-operator, laundering
  Machine-operator, pressing/laundry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Launderer, hand - 91 33
  Presser, hand - 91 33

8151  CRUSHING-, GRINDING- AND CHEMICAL-MIXING-MACHINERY OPERATORS
 

     Crushing-, grinding- and chemical-mixing-machinery operators
operate and  monitor machinery which crushes, grinds, mixes and
blends chemicals and other  materials used in chemical and
related processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mills and crushing machines which
     reduce solid chemicals and related materials to suitable
     size for further processing ;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines in which solids or liquids
     used in chemical and related processes are mixed or blended

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator,  crushing/chemical and related
        processes
  Machine-operator, mixing/chemical and related processes
  Operator, mill/chemical and related processes

8277  TEA-, COFFEE- AND COCOA-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Tea-, coffee- and cocoa-processing machine operators operate
and monitor  machines to blend and prepare tea leaves, coffee or
cocoa beans and chicory  roots.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to dry tea leaves,
     roll withered leaves or dry rolled leaves, and blend various
     grades of tea;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines used to cut coffee or
     cocoa berries and remove and wash off pulp, peel off husk
     from beans, and cure and blend beans;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which roast blended coffee
     or cocoa beans or chicory roots;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which crush tea or grind
     coffee, cocoa or chicory; 

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cocoa-bean processing
  Machine-operator, coffee-bean processing
  Machine-operator, tea-leaf processing

8278  BREWERS, WINE AND OTHER BEVERAGE  MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Brewers, wine and other beverage machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which mix, press, or malt and ferment
grains and fruit to make malt  liquors, wine and other alcoholic
or non-alcoholic beverages, except fruit and  vegetable juices.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which process barley and
     other grains used in making distilled and malt liquors, and
     controlling the fermentation process,

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which process grapes and
     other fruit used in making wines, and controlling the
     fermentation process;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which increase or reduce the
     alcohol content of alcoholic beverages;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend wines and
     liquors to obtain desired tastes and flavours;
(e)  operating and monitoring machines which make non-alcoholic
     beverages, except fruit and vegetable juices;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Brewer
  Machine-operator, malting/spirits
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, fruit juice production - 8275
  Taster, wine - 7415

8277  TEA-, COFFEE- AND COCOA-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Tea-, coffee- and cocoa-processing machine operators operate
and monitor  machines to blend and prepare tea leaves, coffee or
cocoa beans and chicory  roots.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to dry tea leaves,
     roll withered leaves or dry rolled leaves, and blend various
     grades of tea;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines used to cut coffee or
     cocoa berries and remove and wash off pulp, peel off husk
     from beans, and cure and blend beans;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which roast blended coffee
     or cocoa beans or chicory roots;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which crush tea or grind
     coffee, cocoa or chicory; 

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cocoa-bean processing
  Machine-operator, coffee-bean processing
  Machine-operator, tea-leaf processing

8261  FIBRE-PREPARING, SPINNING- AND WINDING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fibre-preparing, spinning- and winding-machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which prepare fibres, and spin,
double, twist and wind  yarn and thread.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which combine textile
     fibres into uniform blends;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which clean and fluff
     textile fibres, transform them into sliver, comb them into
     sliver for first drawing, combine slivers into sliver lap
     or sliver laps into ribbon lap, combine several slivers into
     one attenuated strand of regular quality and weight;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which transform sliver
     into roving;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which spin thread and yarn
     from roving, wind two or more threads onto bobbin, twist two
     or more strands of yarn or thread into single heavier and
     stronger strand, or wind yarn or thread from one package to
     another;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fibre preparing
  Machine-operator, spinning/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, twisting/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, winding/thread and yarn
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Spinner - 7432

8279  TOBACCO PRODUCTION MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Tobacco production machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  process tobacco and make cigarettes and other
tobacco products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which process tobacco in
     preparation for manufacturing cigarettes and other tobacco
     products;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which produce cigarettes
     and other tobacco products;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cigar production
  Machine-operator, cigarette production
  Machine-operator, tobacco processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Grader, tobacco - 741 6
  Maker, cigar - 741 6

8278  BREWERS, WINE AND OTHER BEVERAGE  MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Brewers, wine and other beverage machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which mix, press, or malt and ferment
grains and fruit to make malt  liquors, wine and other alcoholic
or non-alcoholic beverages, except fruit and  vegetable juices.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which process barley and
     other grains used in making distilled and malt liquors, and
     controlling the fermentation process,

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which process grapes and
     other fruit used in making wines, and controlling the
     fermentation process;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which increase or reduce the
     alcohol content of alcoholic beverages;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend wines and
     liquors to obtain desired tastes and flavours;
(e)  operating and monitoring machines which make non-alcoholic
     beverages, except fruit and vegetable juices;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Brewer
  Machine-operator, malting/spirits
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, fruit juice production - 8275
  Taster, wine - 7415

8269  TEXTILE-, FUR- AND LEATHER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers textile-, fur- and leather-products
machine  operators not classified elsewhere in Minor group 826,
Textile-, fur- and  leather-products machine operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machines which make hats or
miscellaneous articles  such as braids or other trimmings.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which form and make hats
     out of textiles, fur or leather;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which make miscellaneous
     articles such as braids or other trimmings;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, braid production
  Machine-operator, hat making
  Machine-operator, pattern making/textiles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Milliner - 7433
  Pattern-maker, garment - 7435

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8223  METAL FINISHING-, PLATING AND COATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Metal finishing-, plating- and coating-machine operators
operate and  monitor equipment which finishes, plates and coats
metal articles or parts, in  order to give them improved
resistance to corrosion and abrasion, for  decorative purposes,
or to impart electrical or magnetic properties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which cleans metal
     articles in preparation for electroplating, galvanising,
     enamelling or similar processes;

(b)  operating and monitoring electroplating equipment;

(c)  operating and monitoring hot-dip equipment used to coat iron
     and steel products

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which automatically coat
     wire with non ferrous metal

(e)  operating and monitoring equipment used to spray molten
     metal or other substances on metal products to provide a
     protective or decorative coating or to build up worn or
     damaged surfaces;

(f)  operating and monitoring equipment used to impart a rust-
     resistant finish to metal articles by treating them with
     chemicals and heating them;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, coating/metal
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal
  Machine-operator, plating/metal

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8252  BOOKBINDING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Bookbinding-machine operators operate and monitor machines
which bind and  emboss books.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring bookbinding machines ;

(b)  operating and monitoring pressing machines which emboss
     designs and titles on book covers;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, bookbinding
  Machine-operator, embossing/books
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Bookbinder - 7345
  Embosser, book - 7345

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8141  WOOD-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Wood-processing-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment for sawing wood, cutting veneer and
making plywood, and otherwise  prepare wood for further use.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring log in-feed and conveyor systems;

(b)  operating and monitoring head saws, resaws and multiblade
     saws to saw logs, cants, flitches, slabs or wings and remove
     rough edges from sawn timber;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut veneer;

(d)  operating and monitoring plywood core-laying machines and
     hot-plate plywood presses;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, band-saw
  Operator, sawmill
  Operator, wood-processing plant
  Press-operator, plywood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Wood seasoner - 7421
  Wood treater - 7421

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8290  OTHER MACHINE OPERATORS AND ASSEMBLERS
 

     Other machine operators and assemblers operate and monitor
machines which  pack, label and, if needed, add revenue stamps
to products, packages and  containers, or assemble, according to
strictly laid down procedures, products  whose component parts
are made of a wide range of materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which wrap and pack
     various products, including liquid ones, for storage or
     shipment;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which, by gluing or other
     methods, label products, packages and various containers,
     or add revenue stamps;

(c)  assembling, according to strictly laid down procedures,
     products whose component parts are made of a very wide range
     of materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, composite products
  Machine-operator, labelling
  Machine-operator, packing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Packer, hand - 9322

8269  TEXTILE-, FUR- AND LEATHER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers textile-, fur- and leather-products
machine  operators not classified elsewhere in Minor group 826,
Textile-, fur- and  leather-products machine operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machines which make hats or
miscellaneous articles  such as braids or other trimmings.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which form and make hats
     out of textiles, fur or leather;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which make miscellaneous
     articles such as braids or other trimmings;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, braid production
  Machine-operator, hat making
  Machine-operator, pattern making/textiles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Milliner - 7433
  Pattern-maker, garment - 7435

8290  OTHER MACHINE OPERATORS AND ASSEMBLERS
 

     Other machine operators and assemblers operate and monitor
machines which  pack, label and, if needed, add revenue stamps
to products, packages and  containers, or assemble, according to
strictly laid down procedures, products  whose component parts
are made of a wide range of materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which wrap and pack
     various products, including liquid ones, for storage or
     shipment;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which, by gluing or other
     methods, label products, packages and various containers,
     or add revenue stamps;

(c)  assembling, according to strictly laid down procedures,
     products whose component parts are made of a very wide range
     of materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, composite products
  Machine-operator, labelling
  Machine-operator, packing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Packer, hand - 9322

8274  BAKED-GOODS, CEREAL AND CHOCOLATE-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Baked-goods, cereal and chocolate-products machine operators
operate and  monitor mixing, blending, shaping and baking
machines which produce cereals,  bread, pastry, pasta, chocolate
and related products from flour, cocoa and  other ingredients.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which mix and blend flour
     with other ingredients to prepare dough for the production
     of bread, pastries, pasta and related products;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude and shape
     dough for the production of bread, pastries, pasta and
     related products;

(c)  operating and monitoring ovens used for baking bread,
     pastries, pasta and related products;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines used for making cereals-'

(e)  operating and monitoring machines used for making chocolate
     and confectionery;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, bread production
  Machine-operator, chocolate production
  Machine-operator, confectionery production
  Machine-operator, pastry production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Baker - 7412
  Maker, chocolate - 7412

8278  BREWERS, WINE AND OTHER BEVERAGE  MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Brewers, wine and other beverage machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which mix, press, or malt and ferment
grains and fruit to make malt  liquors, wine and other alcoholic
or non-alcoholic beverages, except fruit and  vegetable juices.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which process barley and
     other grains used in making distilled and malt liquors, and
     controlling the fermentation process,

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which process grapes and
     other fruit used in making wines, and controlling the
     fermentation process;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which increase or reduce the
     alcohol content of alcoholic beverages;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend wines and
     liquors to obtain desired tastes and flavours;
(e)  operating and monitoring machines which make non-alcoholic
     beverages, except fruit and vegetable juices;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Brewer
  Machine-operator, malting/spirits
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, fruit juice production - 8275
  Taster, wine - 7415

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8232  PLASTIC-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Plastic-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  knead and blend compounds to obtain plastic
materials and which make various  plastic components and
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which knead and blend
     compounds to obtain plastic materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which shape plastic
     materials by moulding, extrusion, cutting and other means;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which laminate plastics
     and plastic impregnated materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, extruding/plastics
  Machine-operator, moulding/plastics
  Machine-operator, plastics production

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8290  OTHER MACHINE OPERATORS AND ASSEMBLERS
 

     Other machine operators and assemblers operate and monitor
machines which  pack, label and, if needed, add revenue stamps
to products, packages and  containers, or assemble, according to
strictly laid down procedures, products  whose component parts
are made of a wide range of materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which wrap and pack
     various products, including liquid ones, for storage or
     shipment;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which, by gluing or other
     methods, label products, packages and various containers,
     or add revenue stamps;

(c)  assembling, according to strictly laid down procedures,
     products whose component parts are made of a very wide range
     of materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, composite products
  Machine-operator, labelling
  Machine-operator, packing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Packer, hand - 9322

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8229  CHEMICAL-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-products machine operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 822.  Chemical-products
machine operators.

     For instance here should be classified those who operate and
monitor  machines which produce chemical-based products such as
linoleum, candles,  halogen gases and related items.

     In such cases tasks would include:
(a)  operating and monitoring machines which make linoleum,
     candles, halogen gases and related chemical products;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, candle production
  Machine-operator, halogen gas production
  Machine-operator, linoleum production

8271  MEAT- AND FISH-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Meat- and fish-processing-machine operators operate and
monitor machines  used to slaughter animals, trim carcasses,
prepare standard meat or fish cuts,  and manufacture meat and
fish products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to slaughter animals
     and to cut carcasses or fish into standard pieces;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines used to mince and mix meat
     or fish;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines used to process meat and
     fish and manufacture various meat and fish products, such
as
     sausages, smoked meat or smoked fish;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines used to produce canned or
     frozen meat and fish dishes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fish processing
  Machine-operator, meat processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Butcher - 7411
  Fishmonger - 7411

8275  FRUIT-, VEGETABLE- AND NUT-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fruit-, vegetable- and nut-processing machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which extract juice from fruit and
vegetables or oil from  oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit, and
which process fruit, vegetables and  nuts by drying, cooking,
canning or freezing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which extract juice from
     fruit and vegetables by heating or pressing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     oil from oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make margarine and
     similar products from animal and vegetable oils;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare fruit,
     vegetables and nuts for further processing ;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which dry, cook, can,
     freeze or otherwise process fruit, vegetables and nuts

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fruit processing
  Machine-operator, vegetable processing
  Press-operator, edible oils
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Expeller, oil - 7414
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production - 8278
  Preserver, fruit - 7414
  Preserver, vegetable - 7414

8271  MEAT- AND FISH-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Meat- and fish-processing-machine operators operate and
monitor machines  used to slaughter animals, trim carcasses,
prepare standard meat or fish cuts,  and manufacture meat and
fish products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to slaughter animals
     and to cut carcasses or fish into standard pieces;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines used to mince and mix meat
     or fish;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines used to process meat and
     fish and manufacture various meat and fish products, such
as
     sausages, smoked meat or smoked fish;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines used to produce canned or
     frozen meat and fish dishes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fish processing
  Machine-operator, meat processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Butcher - 7411
  Fishmonger - 7411

8275  FRUIT-, VEGETABLE- AND NUT-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fruit-, vegetable- and nut-processing machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which extract juice from fruit and
vegetables or oil from  oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit, and
which process fruit, vegetables and  nuts by drying, cooking,
canning or freezing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which extract juice from
     fruit and vegetables by heating or pressing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     oil from oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make margarine and
     similar products from animal and vegetable oils;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare fruit,
     vegetables and nuts for further processing ;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which dry, cook, can,
     freeze or otherwise process fruit, vegetables and nuts

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fruit processing
  Machine-operator, vegetable processing
  Press-operator, edible oils
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Expeller, oil - 7414
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production - 8278
  Preserver, fruit - 7414
  Preserver, vegetable - 7414

8290  OTHER MACHINE OPERATORS AND ASSEMBLERS
 

     Other machine operators and assemblers operate and monitor
machines which  pack, label and, if needed, add revenue stamps
to products, packages and  containers, or assemble, according to
strictly laid down procedures, products  whose component parts
are made of a wide range of materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which wrap and pack
     various products, including liquid ones, for storage or
     shipment;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which, by gluing or other
     methods, label products, packages and various containers,
     or add revenue stamps;

(c)  assembling, according to strictly laid down procedures,
     products whose component parts are made of a very wide range
     of materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, composite products
  Machine-operator, labelling
  Machine-operator, packing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Packer, hand - 9322

8143  PAPERMAKING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Papermaking-plant operators operate and monitor machinery
and equipment  which makes paper, paper board and sheet pulp from
pulp stock.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring section of papermaking machinery
     and equipment in which wet pulp is formed into paper or in
     which paper is dried, calendered, wound, slit and rewound;

(b)  operating and monitoring supercalenders used to impart gloss
     and finish to surface of paper;

(c)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment used to
     glaze or impregnate paper with coating mixture;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, papermaking plant
  Operator, supercalender

8253  PAPER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Paper-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  produce boxes, envelopes, bags and other goods
from paper, paperboard,  cardboard, cellophane and similar
materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which glue paper to
     cardboard, cut it to the required length or cut and crease
     cardboard or paperboard to form box blanks;

(b)  operating and monitoring pressing machines which form
     drinking cups or other containers from paper, paperboard or
     cardboard;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut, fold and glue
     paper to make envelopes and paper bags, or which form bags
     from other materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cardboard products
  Machine-operator, envelope and paper bag production
  Machine-operator, paper box production
  Machine-operator, paper products

8262  WEAVING- AND KNITTING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Weaving- and knitting-machine operators operate and monitor
weaving and  knitting machines and related equipment used to
produce materials and fabrics.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to weave or knit
     plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpets, garments,
     hosiery or other fabrics or articles;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, knitting
  Machine-operator, net production
  Machine-operator, weaving
  Machine-operator, weaving/carpets
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Knitter - 7432
  Weaver, carpet - 7432 Weaver, cloth - 7432

8232  PLASTIC-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Plastic-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  knead and blend compounds to obtain plastic
materials and which make various  plastic components and
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which knead and blend
     compounds to obtain plastic materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which shape plastic
     materials by moulding, extrusion, cutting and other means;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which laminate plastics
     and plastic impregnated materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, extruding/plastics
  Machine-operator, moulding/plastics
  Machine-operator, plastics production

8212  CEMENT AND OTHER MINERAL PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Cement and other mineral products machine operators operate
and monitor  extrusion, moulding, mixing, grinding and cutting
machines which manufacture  and finish various precast concrete
and stone products, or which make cast  stone for building
purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring extrusion, moulding, grinding and
     cutting machines which manufacture and finish various
     precast concrete and stone products, such as flagstones,
     fencing posts, moulded pipe sections and trench liners,
     walling and partition slabs, building components, cable
     conduits, fume and dust extraction conduits;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which mix sand, gravel,
     cement and water to make concrete ;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cast-concrete products
  Machine-operator, cast-stone products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln-operator, cement production 8152
  Machine-operator, stone processing 8112

8240  WOOD-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Wood-products machine operators operate and monitor
automatic or  semi-automatic woodworking machines which perform
repetitive work and are  always set up by woodworking-machine
setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more previously set up
     machines for sawing, shaping, boring, planing, turning or
     carving wood;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, carving/wood
  Machine-operator, furniture production
  Machine-operator, wood products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, woodworking machine - 7423
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine - 7423

8212  CEMENT AND OTHER MINERAL PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Cement and other mineral products machine operators operate
and monitor  extrusion, moulding, mixing, grinding and cutting
machines which manufacture  and finish various precast concrete
and stone products, or which make cast  stone for building
purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring extrusion, moulding, grinding and
     cutting machines which manufacture and finish various
     precast concrete and stone products, such as flagstones,
     fencing posts, moulded pipe sections and trench liners,
     walling and partition slabs, building components, cable
     conduits, fume and dust extraction conduits;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which mix sand, gravel,
     cement and water to make concrete ;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cast-concrete products
  Machine-operator, cast-stone products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln-operator, cement production 8152
  Machine-operator, stone processing 8112

8122  METAL MELTERS, CASTERS AND ROLLING-MILL OPERATORS
 

     Metal melters, casters and rolling-mill operators operate
and monitor  rolling mills to roll metal, or furnaces to melt or
reheat metal, or machines  to cast metal.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring furnaces to melt ferrous and non-
     ferrous metal for casting;

(b)  operating and monitoring furnaces to reheat stock metal
     forms prior to forging, power-pressing, rolling and further
     processing;

(c)  operating and monitoring rolling mills to shape hot or cold
     steel into shapes for further processing, or into final
     shapes;

(d)  operating and monitoring rolling mills to reduce or form hot
     or cold non-ferrous metal to specified shapes, such as
     plate, sheet or foil;

(e)  operating and monitoring rolls to form seamless tubes and
     pipes from billets which have been pierced longitudinally;

(f)  pouring molten metal into moulds and operating and
     monitoring casting machines

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, melting/metal
  Machine-operator, casting/metal
  Operator, rolling mill/nonferrous metal

8232  PLASTIC-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Plastic-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  knead and blend compounds to obtain plastic
materials and which make various  plastic components and
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which knead and blend
     compounds to obtain plastic materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which shape plastic
     materials by moulding, extrusion, cutting and other means;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which laminate plastics
     and plastic impregnated materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, extruding/plastics
  Machine-operator, moulding/plastics
  Machine-operator, plastics production

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8251  PRINTING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Printing-machine operators operate and monitor various types
of machines  which print on paper, tin plate and other materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring cylinder, platen, rotary, offset,
     direct lithographic, rotogravure, and wallpaper-printing
     presses,

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Press-operator, printing/cylinder
  Press-operator, printing/offset
  Press-operator, printing/rotary
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Compositor printing - 7341
  Printer - 7341
  Typesetter - 7341

8253  PAPER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Paper-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  produce boxes, envelopes, bags and other goods
from paper, paperboard,  cardboard, cellophane and similar
materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which glue paper to
     cardboard, cut it to the required length or cut and crease
     cardboard or paperboard to form box blanks;

(b)  operating and monitoring pressing machines which form
     drinking cups or other containers from paper, paperboard or
     cardboard;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut, fold and glue
     paper to make envelopes and paper bags, or which form bags
     from other materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cardboard products
  Machine-operator, envelope and paper bag production
  Machine-operator, paper box production
  Machine-operator, paper products

8212  CEMENT AND OTHER MINERAL PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Cement and other mineral products machine operators operate
and monitor  extrusion, moulding, mixing, grinding and cutting
machines which manufacture  and finish various precast concrete
and stone products, or which make cast  stone for building
purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring extrusion, moulding, grinding and
     cutting machines which manufacture and finish various
     precast concrete and stone products, such as flagstones,
     fencing posts, moulded pipe sections and trench liners,
     walling and partition slabs, building components, cable
     conduits, fume and dust extraction conduits;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which mix sand, gravel,
     cement and water to make concrete ;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cast-concrete products
  Machine-operator, cast-stone products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln-operator, cement production 8152
  Machine-operator, stone processing 8112

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8274  BAKED-GOODS, CEREAL AND CHOCOLATE-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Baked-goods, cereal and chocolate-products machine operators
operate and  monitor mixing, blending, shaping and baking
machines which produce cereals,  bread, pastry, pasta, chocolate
and related products from flour, cocoa and  other ingredients.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which mix and blend flour
     with other ingredients to prepare dough for the production
     of bread, pastries, pasta and related products;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude and shape
     dough for the production of bread, pastries, pasta and
     related products;

(c)  operating and monitoring ovens used for baking bread,
     pastries, pasta and related products;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines used for making cereals-'

(e)  operating and monitoring machines used for making chocolate
     and confectionery;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, bread production
  Machine-operator, chocolate production
  Machine-operator, confectionery production
  Machine-operator, pastry production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Baker - 7412
  Maker, chocolate - 7412

8111  MINING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mining-plant operators operate and monitor machinery and
equipment which  cut channels in a mine or quarry workface or
drill holes for blasting, or they  operate continuous-mining
machines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery for cutting channels in
     a mine or quarry workface or for drilling blasting holes in
     mines or quarries;

(b)  operating and monitoring continuous mining machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cutting/mine
  Machine-operator, drilling/mine
  Machine-operator, mining/continuous
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Miner - 7111
  Quarrier - 7111
  Shotfirer - 7112

8159  CHEMICAL-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-processing-plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 815, Chemical-processing
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment
which treat chemical  solutions with bleaching reagents, produce
coke or gas from coal, extrude and  form natural or synthetic
polymers into synthetic fibres, produce fertilisers,  or extract
and process radioactive materials.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which treats chemical
     solutions with bleaching reagents;

(b)  operating and monitoring plant which produces coke or gas
     from coal;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which extrudes or forms
     natural or synthetic polymers into synthetic fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring fertiliser plant equipment;

(e)  operating and monitoring plant which separates and extracts
     radioactive materials from their ores or processes such
     materials;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, coke production plant
  Operator, fertiliser plant
  Operator, synthetic-fibre production plant

8142  PAPER-PULP PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Paper-pulp plant operators operate and monitor machinery and
equipment  which converts materials such as wood, rags, esparto,
straw, scrap-pulp and  paper into stock for use in papermaking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring chipper and grinding machines which
     reduce logs to pulp;

(b)  operating and monitoring digesters which produce pulp from
     materials such as wood, rags, esparto, straw or scrap-pulp
     and scrap paper;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which bleach wood pulp,
     rags, esparto, straw or scrap-pulp and scrap paper;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which mix, beat and
     hydrate pulp and other ingredients to prepare stuff for
     making paper;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, grinding/wood
  Operator, chipper/paper pulp
  Operator, paper-pulp plant

8229  CHEMICAL-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-products machine operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 822.  Chemical-products
machine operators.

     For instance here should be classified those who operate and
monitor  machines which produce chemical-based products such as
linoleum, candles,  halogen gases and related items.

     In such cases tasks would include:
(a)  operating and monitoring machines which make linoleum,
     candles, halogen gases and related chemical products;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, candle production
  Machine-operator, halogen gas production
  Machine-operator, linoleum production

8274  BAKED-GOODS, CEREAL AND CHOCOLATE-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Baked-goods, cereal and chocolate-products machine operators
operate and  monitor mixing, blending, shaping and baking
machines which produce cereals,  bread, pastry, pasta, chocolate
and related products from flour, cocoa and  other ingredients.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which mix and blend flour
     with other ingredients to prepare dough for the production
     of bread, pastries, pasta and related products;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude and shape
     dough for the production of bread, pastries, pasta and
     related products;

(c)  operating and monitoring ovens used for baking bread,
     pastries, pasta and related products;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines used for making cereals-'

(e)  operating and monitoring machines used for making chocolate
     and confectionery;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, bread production
  Machine-operator, chocolate production
  Machine-operator, confectionery production
  Machine-operator, pastry production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Baker - 7412
  Maker, chocolate - 7412

8279  TOBACCO PRODUCTION MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Tobacco production machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  process tobacco and make cigarettes and other
tobacco products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which process tobacco in
     preparation for manufacturing cigarettes and other tobacco
     products;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which produce cigarettes
     and other tobacco products;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cigar production
  Machine-operator, cigarette production
  Machine-operator, tobacco processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Grader, tobacco - 741 6
  Maker, cigar - 741 6

8139  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers glass and ceramics plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 813, Glass and ceramics
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment used
to mix ingredients for  glass-making or for the preparation of
clay, glaze and abrasives, or which  extrude molten glass in
order to form fibreglass filaments.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which mix ingredients for
     glass-making;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare clay for the
     production of ceramics and bricks;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines for making glaze or
     abrasives

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude molten glass
     to form fibreglass filaments ;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, mixing/clay
  Machine-operator, mixing/glass

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8262  WEAVING- AND KNITTING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Weaving- and knitting-machine operators operate and monitor
weaving and  knitting machines and related equipment used to
produce materials and fabrics.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to weave or knit
     plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpets, garments,
     hosiery or other fabrics or articles;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, knitting
  Machine-operator, net production
  Machine-operator, weaving
  Machine-operator, weaving/carpets
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Knitter - 7432
  Weaver, carpet - 7432 Weaver, cloth - 7432

8159  CHEMICAL-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-processing-plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 815, Chemical-processing
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment
which treat chemical  solutions with bleaching reagents, produce
coke or gas from coal, extrude and  form natural or synthetic
polymers into synthetic fibres, produce fertilisers,  or extract
and process radioactive materials.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which treats chemical
     solutions with bleaching reagents;

(b)  operating and monitoring plant which produces coke or gas
     from coal;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which extrudes or forms
     natural or synthetic polymers into synthetic fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring fertiliser plant equipment;

(e)  operating and monitoring plant which separates and extracts
     radioactive materials from their ores or processes such
     materials;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, coke production plant
  Operator, fertiliser plant
  Operator, synthetic-fibre production plant

8223  METAL FINISHING-, PLATING AND COATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Metal finishing-, plating- and coating-machine operators
operate and  monitor equipment which finishes, plates and coats
metal articles or parts, in  order to give them improved
resistance to corrosion and abrasion, for  decorative purposes,
or to impart electrical or magnetic properties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which cleans metal
     articles in preparation for electroplating, galvanising,
     enamelling or similar processes;

(b)  operating and monitoring electroplating equipment;

(c)  operating and monitoring hot-dip equipment used to coat iron
     and steel products

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which automatically coat
     wire with non ferrous metal

(e)  operating and monitoring equipment used to spray molten
     metal or other substances on metal products to provide a
     protective or decorative coating or to build up worn or
     damaged surfaces;

(f)  operating and monitoring equipment used to impart a rust-
     resistant finish to metal articles by treating them with
     chemicals and heating them;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, coating/metal
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal
  Machine-operator, plating/metal

8143  PAPERMAKING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Papermaking-plant operators operate and monitor machinery
and equipment  which makes paper, paper board and sheet pulp from
pulp stock.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring section of papermaking machinery
     and equipment in which wet pulp is formed into paper or in
     which paper is dried, calendered, wound, slit and rewound;

(b)  operating and monitoring supercalenders used to impart gloss
     and finish to surface of paper;

(c)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment used to
     glaze or impregnate paper with coating mixture;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, papermaking plant
  Operator, supercalender

8231  RUBBER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Rubber-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  knead and blend rubber and rubber compounds, and
produce various components  and products, from natural and
synthetic rubber, such as moulded footwear,  domestic articles,
insulating materials, industrial accessories, or tyres for 
bicycles, automobiles, tractors, aircraft and other vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which knead, mix and blend
     rubber and rubber compounds for further processing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which produce sheets of
     rubber or rubberised fabric by a rolling process ;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude compounded
     rubber or shape vulcanised rubber by moulding

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which build up tires on
     a form, vulcanise tires and mould or rebuild used tires;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, extruding/rubber
  Machine-operator, milling/rubber
  Machine-operator, tyre production

8223  METAL FINISHING-, PLATING AND COATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Metal finishing-, plating- and coating-machine operators
operate and  monitor equipment which finishes, plates and coats
metal articles or parts, in  order to give them improved
resistance to corrosion and abrasion, for  decorative purposes,
or to impart electrical or magnetic properties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which cleans metal
     articles in preparation for electroplating, galvanising,
     enamelling or similar processes;

(b)  operating and monitoring electroplating equipment;

(c)  operating and monitoring hot-dip equipment used to coat iron
     and steel products

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which automatically coat
     wire with non ferrous metal

(e)  operating and monitoring equipment used to spray molten
     metal or other substances on metal products to provide a
     protective or decorative coating or to build up worn or
     damaged surfaces;

(f)  operating and monitoring equipment used to impart a rust-
     resistant finish to metal articles by treating them with
     chemicals and heating them;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, coating/metal
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal
  Machine-operator, plating/metal

8277  TEA-, COFFEE- AND COCOA-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Tea-, coffee- and cocoa-processing machine operators operate
and monitor  machines to blend and prepare tea leaves, coffee or
cocoa beans and chicory  roots.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to dry tea leaves,
     roll withered leaves or dry rolled leaves, and blend various
     grades of tea;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines used to cut coffee or
     cocoa berries and remove and wash off pulp, peel off husk
     from beans, and cure and blend beans;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which roast blended coffee
     or cocoa beans or chicory roots;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which crush tea or grind
     coffee, cocoa or chicory; 

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cocoa-bean processing
  Machine-operator, coffee-bean processing
  Machine-operator, tea-leaf processing

8159  CHEMICAL-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-processing-plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 815, Chemical-processing
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment
which treat chemical  solutions with bleaching reagents, produce
coke or gas from coal, extrude and  form natural or synthetic
polymers into synthetic fibres, produce fertilisers,  or extract
and process radioactive materials.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which treats chemical
     solutions with bleaching reagents;

(b)  operating and monitoring plant which produces coke or gas
     from coal;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which extrudes or forms
     natural or synthetic polymers into synthetic fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring fertiliser plant equipment;

(e)  operating and monitoring plant which separates and extracts
     radioactive materials from their ores or processes such
     materials;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, coke production plant
  Operator, fertiliser plant
  Operator, synthetic-fibre production plant

8261  FIBRE-PREPARING, SPINNING- AND WINDING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fibre-preparing, spinning- and winding-machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which prepare fibres, and spin,
double, twist and wind  yarn and thread.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which combine textile
     fibres into uniform blends;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which clean and fluff
     textile fibres, transform them into sliver, comb them into
     sliver for first drawing, combine slivers into sliver lap
     or sliver laps into ribbon lap, combine several slivers into
     one attenuated strand of regular quality and weight;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which transform sliver
     into roving;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which spin thread and yarn
     from roving, wind two or more threads onto bobbin, twist two
     or more strands of yarn or thread into single heavier and
     stronger strand, or wind yarn or thread from one package to
     another;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fibre preparing
  Machine-operator, spinning/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, twisting/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, winding/thread and yarn
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Spinner - 7432

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8151  CRUSHING-, GRINDING- AND CHEMICAL-MIXING-MACHINERY OPERATORS
 

     Crushing-, grinding- and chemical-mixing-machinery operators
operate and  monitor machinery which crushes, grinds, mixes and
blends chemicals and other  materials used in chemical and
related processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mills and crushing machines which
     reduce solid chemicals and related materials to suitable
     size for further processing ;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines in which solids or liquids
     used in chemical and related processes are mixed or blended

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator,  crushing/chemical and related
        processes
  Machine-operator, mixing/chemical and related processes
  Operator, mill/chemical and related processes

8231  RUBBER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Rubber-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  knead and blend rubber and rubber compounds, and
produce various components  and products, from natural and
synthetic rubber, such as moulded footwear,  domestic articles,
insulating materials, industrial accessories, or tyres for 
bicycles, automobiles, tractors, aircraft and other vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which knead, mix and blend
     rubber and rubber compounds for further processing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which produce sheets of
     rubber or rubberised fabric by a rolling process ;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude compounded
     rubber or shape vulcanised rubber by moulding

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which build up tires on
     a form, vulcanise tires and mould or rebuild used tires;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, extruding/rubber
  Machine-operator, milling/rubber
  Machine-operator, tyre production

8232  PLASTIC-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Plastic-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  knead and blend compounds to obtain plastic
materials and which make various  plastic components and
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which knead and blend
     compounds to obtain plastic materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which shape plastic
     materials by moulding, extrusion, cutting and other means;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which laminate plastics
     and plastic impregnated materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, extruding/plastics
  Machine-operator, moulding/plastics
  Machine-operator, plastics production

8274  BAKED-GOODS, CEREAL AND CHOCOLATE-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Baked-goods, cereal and chocolate-products machine operators
operate and  monitor mixing, blending, shaping and baking
machines which produce cereals,  bread, pastry, pasta, chocolate
and related products from flour, cocoa and  other ingredients.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which mix and blend flour
     with other ingredients to prepare dough for the production
     of bread, pastries, pasta and related products;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude and shape
     dough for the production of bread, pastries, pasta and
     related products;

(c)  operating and monitoring ovens used for baking bread,
     pastries, pasta and related products;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines used for making cereals-'

(e)  operating and monitoring machines used for making chocolate
     and confectionery;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, bread production
  Machine-operator, chocolate production
  Machine-operator, confectionery production
  Machine-operator, pastry production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Baker - 7412
  Maker, chocolate - 7412

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8262  WEAVING- AND KNITTING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Weaving- and knitting-machine operators operate and monitor
weaving and  knitting machines and related equipment used to
produce materials and fabrics.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to weave or knit
     plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpets, garments,
     hosiery or other fabrics or articles;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, knitting
  Machine-operator, net production
  Machine-operator, weaving
  Machine-operator, weaving/carpets
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Knitter - 7432
  Weaver, carpet - 7432 Weaver, cloth - 7432

8151  CRUSHING-, GRINDING- AND CHEMICAL-MIXING-MACHINERY OPERATORS
 

     Crushing-, grinding- and chemical-mixing-machinery operators
operate and  monitor machinery which crushes, grinds, mixes and
blends chemicals and other  materials used in chemical and
related processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mills and crushing machines which
     reduce solid chemicals and related materials to suitable
     size for further processing ;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines in which solids or liquids
     used in chemical and related processes are mixed or blended

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator,  crushing/chemical and related
        processes
  Machine-operator, mixing/chemical and related processes
  Operator, mill/chemical and related processes

8112  MINERAL-ORE- AND STONE-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mineral-ore- and stone-processing-plant operators operate
and monitor  machinery and equipment for processing mineral ore
and stone.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which crushes and breaks
     lumps of minerals and stones to required size;

(b)  operating and monitoring washing, separating, leaching,
     precipitating, filtering, extracting and combining equipment
     to wash mineral ores in order to remove waste material;

(c)  combining mineral ores with solvents to facilitate further
     processing;

(d)  separating metal or mineral concentrates from ore or
     alluvial deposits by thickening, flotation, gravity
     separation, filtration, or magnetic or electrostatic
     separation;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Floatation worker, minerals
  Machine-operator, crushing/mineral ore
  Machine-operator, milling/minerals
  Machine-operator, stone processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cutter, stone - 7113
  Splitter, stone - 7113

8271  MEAT- AND FISH-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Meat- and fish-processing-machine operators operate and
monitor machines  used to slaughter animals, trim carcasses,
prepare standard meat or fish cuts,  and manufacture meat and
fish products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to slaughter animals
     and to cut carcasses or fish into standard pieces;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines used to mince and mix meat
     or fish;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines used to process meat and
     fish and manufacture various meat and fish products, such
as
     sausages, smoked meat or smoked fish;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines used to produce canned or
     frozen meat and fish dishes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fish processing
  Machine-operator, meat processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Butcher - 7411
  Fishmonger - 7411

8269  TEXTILE-, FUR- AND LEATHER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers textile-, fur- and leather-products
machine  operators not classified elsewhere in Minor group 826,
Textile-, fur- and  leather-products machine operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machines which make hats or
miscellaneous articles  such as braids or other trimmings.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which form and make hats
     out of textiles, fur or leather;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which make miscellaneous
     articles such as braids or other trimmings;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, braid production
  Machine-operator, hat making
  Machine-operator, pattern making/textiles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Milliner - 7433
  Pattern-maker, garment - 7435

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8212  CEMENT AND OTHER MINERAL PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Cement and other mineral products machine operators operate
and monitor  extrusion, moulding, mixing, grinding and cutting
machines which manufacture  and finish various precast concrete
and stone products, or which make cast  stone for building
purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring extrusion, moulding, grinding and
     cutting machines which manufacture and finish various
     precast concrete and stone products, such as flagstones,
     fencing posts, moulded pipe sections and trench liners,
     walling and partition slabs, building components, cable
     conduits, fume and dust extraction conduits;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which mix sand, gravel,
     cement and water to make concrete ;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cast-concrete products
  Machine-operator, cast-stone products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln-operator, cement production 8152
  Machine-operator, stone processing 8112

8265  FUR- AND LEATHER-PREPARING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fur- and leather-preparing-machine operators operate and
monitor various  machines which prepare leather or treat fur- or
wool-bearing pelts.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which remove flesh and fat
     from pelts before curing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which remove long coarse
     hair from fur pelts, trim hair to even length, and dye,
     stretch and smooth dressed pelts;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which separate residual
     wool from skins, or flesh and hair from hides, and which
     split hides;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which treat hides and
     skins in solutions and apply finishing product to convert
     them into leather;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which apply dyes and
     stains to leather;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dehairing/hide
  Machine-operator, staining/leather
  Machine-operator, tanning
Some related occupations classified elsewhere;
  Dyer, pelt - 7441
  Tanner - 7441

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8111  MINING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mining-plant operators operate and monitor machinery and
equipment which  cut channels in a mine or quarry workface or
drill holes for blasting, or they  operate continuous-mining
machines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery for cutting channels in
     a mine or quarry workface or for drilling blasting holes in
     mines or quarries;

(b)  operating and monitoring continuous mining machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cutting/mine
  Machine-operator, drilling/mine
  Machine-operator, mining/continuous
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Miner - 7111
  Quarrier - 7111
  Shotfirer - 7112

8212  CEMENT AND OTHER MINERAL PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Cement and other mineral products machine operators operate
and monitor  extrusion, moulding, mixing, grinding and cutting
machines which manufacture  and finish various precast concrete
and stone products, or which make cast  stone for building
purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring extrusion, moulding, grinding and
     cutting machines which manufacture and finish various
     precast concrete and stone products, such as flagstones,
     fencing posts, moulded pipe sections and trench liners,
     walling and partition slabs, building components, cable
     conduits, fume and dust extraction conduits;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which mix sand, gravel,
     cement and water to make concrete ;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cast-concrete products
  Machine-operator, cast-stone products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln-operator, cement production 8152
  Machine-operator, stone processing 8112

8253  PAPER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Paper-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  produce boxes, envelopes, bags and other goods
from paper, paperboard,  cardboard, cellophane and similar
materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which glue paper to
     cardboard, cut it to the required length or cut and crease
     cardboard or paperboard to form box blanks;

(b)  operating and monitoring pressing machines which form
     drinking cups or other containers from paper, paperboard or
     cardboard;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut, fold and glue
     paper to make envelopes and paper bags, or which form bags
     from other materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cardboard products
  Machine-operator, envelope and paper bag production
  Machine-operator, paper box production
  Machine-operator, paper products

8232  PLASTIC-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Plastic-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  knead and blend compounds to obtain plastic
materials and which make various  plastic components and
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which knead and blend
     compounds to obtain plastic materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which shape plastic
     materials by moulding, extrusion, cutting and other means;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which laminate plastics
     and plastic impregnated materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, extruding/plastics
  Machine-operator, moulding/plastics
  Machine-operator, plastics production

8112  MINERAL-ORE- AND STONE-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mineral-ore- and stone-processing-plant operators operate
and monitor  machinery and equipment for processing mineral ore
and stone.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which crushes and breaks
     lumps of minerals and stones to required size;

(b)  operating and monitoring washing, separating, leaching,
     precipitating, filtering, extracting and combining equipment
     to wash mineral ores in order to remove waste material;

(c)  combining mineral ores with solvents to facilitate further
     processing;

(d)  separating metal or mineral concentrates from ore or
     alluvial deposits by thickening, flotation, gravity
     separation, filtration, or magnetic or electrostatic
     separation;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Floatation worker, minerals
  Machine-operator, crushing/mineral ore
  Machine-operator, milling/minerals
  Machine-operator, stone processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cutter, stone - 7113
  Splitter, stone - 7113

8212  CEMENT AND OTHER MINERAL PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Cement and other mineral products machine operators operate
and monitor  extrusion, moulding, mixing, grinding and cutting
machines which manufacture  and finish various precast concrete
and stone products, or which make cast  stone for building
purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring extrusion, moulding, grinding and
     cutting machines which manufacture and finish various
     precast concrete and stone products, such as flagstones,
     fencing posts, moulded pipe sections and trench liners,
     walling and partition slabs, building components, cable
     conduits, fume and dust extraction conduits;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which mix sand, gravel,
     cement and water to make concrete ;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cast-concrete products
  Machine-operator, cast-stone products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln-operator, cement production 8152
  Machine-operator, stone processing 8112

8269  TEXTILE-, FUR- AND LEATHER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers textile-, fur- and leather-products
machine  operators not classified elsewhere in Minor group 826,
Textile-, fur- and  leather-products machine operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machines which make hats or
miscellaneous articles  such as braids or other trimmings.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which form and make hats
     out of textiles, fur or leather;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which make miscellaneous
     articles such as braids or other trimmings;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, braid production
  Machine-operator, hat making
  Machine-operator, pattern making/textiles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Milliner - 7433
  Pattern-maker, garment - 7435

8279  TOBACCO PRODUCTION MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Tobacco production machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  process tobacco and make cigarettes and other
tobacco products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which process tobacco in
     preparation for manufacturing cigarettes and other tobacco
     products;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which produce cigarettes
     and other tobacco products;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cigar production
  Machine-operator, cigarette production
  Machine-operator, tobacco processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Grader, tobacco - 741 6
  Maker, cigar - 741 6

8141  WOOD-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Wood-processing-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment for sawing wood, cutting veneer and
making plywood, and otherwise  prepare wood for further use.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring log in-feed and conveyor systems;

(b)  operating and monitoring head saws, resaws and multiblade
     saws to saw logs, cants, flitches, slabs or wings and remove
     rough edges from sawn timber;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut veneer;

(d)  operating and monitoring plywood core-laying machines and
     hot-plate plywood presses;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, band-saw
  Operator, sawmill
  Operator, wood-processing plant
  Press-operator, plywood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Wood seasoner - 7421
  Wood treater - 7421

8272  DAIRY-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Dairy-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  process milk and cream and make dairy products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which pasteurise,
     homogenise and heat-treat milk and cream;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which make condensed or
     powdered milk;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make butter cheese
     and other milk or milk-based products;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
 Machine-operator, dairy products
 Machine-operator, pasteurising/milk
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
 Maker, butter - 7413
 Maker, cheese - 7413

8223  METAL FINISHING-, PLATING AND COATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Metal finishing-, plating- and coating-machine operators
operate and  monitor equipment which finishes, plates and coats
metal articles or parts, in  order to give them improved
resistance to corrosion and abrasion, for  decorative purposes,
or to impart electrical or magnetic properties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which cleans metal
     articles in preparation for electroplating, galvanising,
     enamelling or similar processes;

(b)  operating and monitoring electroplating equipment;

(c)  operating and monitoring hot-dip equipment used to coat iron
     and steel products

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which automatically coat
     wire with non ferrous metal

(e)  operating and monitoring equipment used to spray molten
     metal or other substances on metal products to provide a
     protective or decorative coating or to build up worn or
     damaged surfaces;

(f)  operating and monitoring equipment used to impart a rust-
     resistant finish to metal articles by treating them with
     chemicals and heating them;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, coating/metal
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal
  Machine-operator, plating/metal

8264  BLEACHING-, DYEING- AND CLEANING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 


     Bleaching-, dyeing- and cleaning-machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which bleach, dye, wash and otherwise treat
fibres, yarn, or cloth or dry clean textile, fur and leather
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which treat textile
     products to make them lighter in colour or to give them a
     specific colour;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which wash or dry-clean
     textile, fur or leather products to remove dirt, impurities,
     excess chemicals or natural gum;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which shrink cloth or
     strengthen the weave by interlocking the fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which impregnate textiles
     with chemicals to render them waterproof;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which treat silk to give
     it body and weight;

(f)  operating and monitoring machines which press, stretch, or
     impart lustre, or other type of finish to textiles;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dry-cleaning
  Machine-operator, dyeing/textile fibres
  Machine-operator, laundering
  Machine-operator, pressing/laundry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Launderer, hand - 91 33
  Presser, hand - 91 33

8265  FUR- AND LEATHER-PREPARING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fur- and leather-preparing-machine operators operate and
monitor various  machines which prepare leather or treat fur- or
wool-bearing pelts.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which remove flesh and fat
     from pelts before curing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which remove long coarse
     hair from fur pelts, trim hair to even length, and dye,
     stretch and smooth dressed pelts;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which separate residual
     wool from skins, or flesh and hair from hides, and which
     split hides;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which treat hides and
     skins in solutions and apply finishing product to convert
     them into leather;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which apply dyes and
     stains to leather;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dehairing/hide
  Machine-operator, staining/leather
  Machine-operator, tanning
Some related occupations classified elsewhere;
  Dyer, pelt - 7441
  Tanner - 7441

8275  FRUIT-, VEGETABLE- AND NUT-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fruit-, vegetable- and nut-processing machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which extract juice from fruit and
vegetables or oil from  oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit, and
which process fruit, vegetables and  nuts by drying, cooking,
canning or freezing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which extract juice from
     fruit and vegetables by heating or pressing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     oil from oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make margarine and
     similar products from animal and vegetable oils;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare fruit,
     vegetables and nuts for further processing ;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which dry, cook, can,
     freeze or otherwise process fruit, vegetables and nuts

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fruit processing
  Machine-operator, vegetable processing
  Press-operator, edible oils
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Expeller, oil - 7414
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production - 8278
  Preserver, fruit - 7414
  Preserver, vegetable - 7414

8221  PHARMACEUTICAL- AND TOILETRY-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Pharmaceutical- and toiletry-products machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which process a variety of
chemicals and other ingredients  used in the production of
pharmaceuticals and toiletries.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines for moulding, filtering,
     fermenting, heating, mixing, grinding, filling and sealing
     materials used in the production of pharmaceuticals,
     toiletries, detergents and related products;

(b)  operating controls to regulate temperature, pressure, flow
     and speed of operation ;

(c)  cleaning and disinfecting equipment;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, detergent production
  Machine-operator, pharmaceutical products
  Machine-operator, toiletries production

8224  PHOTOGRAPHIC-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Photographic-products machine operators operate and monitor
equipment  which makes photographic film and paper, and which
processes exposed  photographic film and makes prints.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which makes photographic
     film and paper;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines for coating and backing
     photographic plates;

(c)  operating and monitoring equipment which processes colour
     and black-and white films and plates to obtain negatives or
     transparent positives;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment which prints black-and-
     white or colour photographs or which enlarges or reduces
     photographs;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, developing/photography
  Machine-operator, enlarging/photography
  Machine-operator, photographic-film
  Machine-operator, printing/photography (colour)
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Developer, film/colour - 7344
  Enlarger, photograph - 7344
  Printer, photograph - 7344

8223  METAL FINISHING-, PLATING AND COATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Metal finishing-, plating- and coating-machine operators
operate and  monitor equipment which finishes, plates and coats
metal articles or parts, in  order to give them improved
resistance to corrosion and abrasion, for  decorative purposes,
or to impart electrical or magnetic properties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which cleans metal
     articles in preparation for electroplating, galvanising,
     enamelling or similar processes;

(b)  operating and monitoring electroplating equipment;

(c)  operating and monitoring hot-dip equipment used to coat iron
     and steel products

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which automatically coat
     wire with non ferrous metal

(e)  operating and monitoring equipment used to spray molten
     metal or other substances on metal products to provide a
     protective or decorative coating or to build up worn or
     damaged surfaces;

(f)  operating and monitoring equipment used to impart a rust-
     resistant finish to metal articles by treating them with
     chemicals and heating them;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, coating/metal
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal
  Machine-operator, plating/metal

8278  BREWERS, WINE AND OTHER BEVERAGE  MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Brewers, wine and other beverage machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which mix, press, or malt and ferment
grains and fruit to make malt  liquors, wine and other alcoholic
or non-alcoholic beverages, except fruit and  vegetable juices.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which process barley and
     other grains used in making distilled and malt liquors, and
     controlling the fermentation process,

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which process grapes and
     other fruit used in making wines, and controlling the
     fermentation process;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which increase or reduce the
     alcohol content of alcoholic beverages;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend wines and
     liquors to obtain desired tastes and flavours;
(e)  operating and monitoring machines which make non-alcoholic
     beverages, except fruit and vegetable juices;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Brewer
  Machine-operator, malting/spirits
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, fruit juice production - 8275
  Taster, wine - 7415

8261  FIBRE-PREPARING, SPINNING- AND WINDING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fibre-preparing, spinning- and winding-machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which prepare fibres, and spin,
double, twist and wind  yarn and thread.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which combine textile
     fibres into uniform blends;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which clean and fluff
     textile fibres, transform them into sliver, comb them into
     sliver for first drawing, combine slivers into sliver lap
     or sliver laps into ribbon lap, combine several slivers into
     one attenuated strand of regular quality and weight;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which transform sliver
     into roving;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which spin thread and yarn
     from roving, wind two or more threads onto bobbin, twist two
     or more strands of yarn or thread into single heavier and
     stronger strand, or wind yarn or thread from one package to
     another;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fibre preparing
  Machine-operator, spinning/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, twisting/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, winding/thread and yarn
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Spinner - 7432

8290  OTHER MACHINE OPERATORS AND ASSEMBLERS
 

     Other machine operators and assemblers operate and monitor
machines which  pack, label and, if needed, add revenue stamps
to products, packages and  containers, or assemble, according to
strictly laid down procedures, products  whose component parts
are made of a wide range of materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which wrap and pack
     various products, including liquid ones, for storage or
     shipment;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which, by gluing or other
     methods, label products, packages and various containers,
     or add revenue stamps;

(c)  assembling, according to strictly laid down procedures,
     products whose component parts are made of a very wide range
     of materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, composite products
  Machine-operator, labelling
  Machine-operator, packing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Packer, hand - 9322

8261  FIBRE-PREPARING, SPINNING- AND WINDING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fibre-preparing, spinning- and winding-machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which prepare fibres, and spin,
double, twist and wind  yarn and thread.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which combine textile
     fibres into uniform blends;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which clean and fluff
     textile fibres, transform them into sliver, comb them into
     sliver for first drawing, combine slivers into sliver lap
     or sliver laps into ribbon lap, combine several slivers into
     one attenuated strand of regular quality and weight;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which transform sliver
     into roving;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which spin thread and yarn
     from roving, wind two or more threads onto bobbin, twist two
     or more strands of yarn or thread into single heavier and
     stronger strand, or wind yarn or thread from one package to
     another;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fibre preparing
  Machine-operator, spinning/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, twisting/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, winding/thread and yarn
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Spinner - 7432

8262  WEAVING- AND KNITTING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Weaving- and knitting-machine operators operate and monitor
weaving and  knitting machines and related equipment used to
produce materials and fabrics.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to weave or knit
     plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpets, garments,
     hosiery or other fabrics or articles;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, knitting
  Machine-operator, net production
  Machine-operator, weaving
  Machine-operator, weaving/carpets
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Knitter - 7432
  Weaver, carpet - 7432 Weaver, cloth - 7432

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8124  METAL DRAWERS AND EXTRUDERS

 

     Metal drawers and extruders operate and monitor machinery
and equipment  which draw and extrude metals to make wire, tubes
and similar products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring wire-drawing machines;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines to draw seamless metal
     tubing;

(c)  operating and monitoring extrusion presses to make metal
     rods, bars and seamless tubing;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, drawing/wire
  Machine-operator, extruding/metal
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Drawer, wire - 7221

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8111  MINING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mining-plant operators operate and monitor machinery and
equipment which  cut channels in a mine or quarry workface or
drill holes for blasting, or they  operate continuous-mining
machines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery for cutting channels in
     a mine or quarry workface or for drilling blasting holes in
     mines or quarries;

(b)  operating and monitoring continuous mining machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cutting/mine
  Machine-operator, drilling/mine
  Machine-operator, mining/continuous
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Miner - 7111
  Quarrier - 7111
  Shotfirer - 7112

8232  PLASTIC-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Plastic-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  knead and blend compounds to obtain plastic
materials and which make various  plastic components and
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which knead and blend
     compounds to obtain plastic materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which shape plastic
     materials by moulding, extrusion, cutting and other means;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which laminate plastics
     and plastic impregnated materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, extruding/plastics
  Machine-operator, moulding/plastics
  Machine-operator, plastics production

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8111  MINING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mining-plant operators operate and monitor machinery and
equipment which  cut channels in a mine or quarry workface or
drill holes for blasting, or they  operate continuous-mining
machines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery for cutting channels in
     a mine or quarry workface or for drilling blasting holes in
     mines or quarries;

(b)  operating and monitoring continuous mining machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cutting/mine
  Machine-operator, drilling/mine
  Machine-operator, mining/continuous
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Miner - 7111
  Quarrier - 7111
  Shotfirer - 7112

8112  MINERAL-ORE- AND STONE-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mineral-ore- and stone-processing-plant operators operate
and monitor  machinery and equipment for processing mineral ore
and stone.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which crushes and breaks
     lumps of minerals and stones to required size;

(b)  operating and monitoring washing, separating, leaching,
     precipitating, filtering, extracting and combining equipment
     to wash mineral ores in order to remove waste material;

(c)  combining mineral ores with solvents to facilitate further
     processing;

(d)  separating metal or mineral concentrates from ore or
     alluvial deposits by thickening, flotation, gravity
     separation, filtration, or magnetic or electrostatic
     separation;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Floatation worker, minerals
  Machine-operator, crushing/mineral ore
  Machine-operator, milling/minerals
  Machine-operator, stone processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cutter, stone - 7113
  Splitter, stone - 7113

8141  WOOD-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Wood-processing-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment for sawing wood, cutting veneer and
making plywood, and otherwise  prepare wood for further use.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring log in-feed and conveyor systems;

(b)  operating and monitoring head saws, resaws and multiblade
     saws to saw logs, cants, flitches, slabs or wings and remove
     rough edges from sawn timber;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut veneer;

(d)  operating and monitoring plywood core-laying machines and
     hot-plate plywood presses;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, band-saw
  Operator, sawmill
  Operator, wood-processing plant
  Press-operator, plywood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Wood seasoner - 7421
  Wood treater - 7421

8264  BLEACHING-, DYEING- AND CLEANING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 


     Bleaching-, dyeing- and cleaning-machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which bleach, dye, wash and otherwise treat
fibres, yarn, or cloth or dry clean textile, fur and leather
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which treat textile
     products to make them lighter in colour or to give them a
     specific colour;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which wash or dry-clean
     textile, fur or leather products to remove dirt, impurities,
     excess chemicals or natural gum;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which shrink cloth or
     strengthen the weave by interlocking the fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which impregnate textiles
     with chemicals to render them waterproof;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which treat silk to give
     it body and weight;

(f)  operating and monitoring machines which press, stretch, or
     impart lustre, or other type of finish to textiles;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dry-cleaning
  Machine-operator, dyeing/textile fibres
  Machine-operator, laundering
  Machine-operator, pressing/laundry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Launderer, hand - 91 33
  Presser, hand - 91 33

8275  FRUIT-, VEGETABLE- AND NUT-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fruit-, vegetable- and nut-processing machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which extract juice from fruit and
vegetables or oil from  oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit, and
which process fruit, vegetables and  nuts by drying, cooking,
canning or freezing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which extract juice from
     fruit and vegetables by heating or pressing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     oil from oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make margarine and
     similar products from animal and vegetable oils;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare fruit,
     vegetables and nuts for further processing ;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which dry, cook, can,
     freeze or otherwise process fruit, vegetables and nuts

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fruit processing
  Machine-operator, vegetable processing
  Press-operator, edible oils
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Expeller, oil - 7414
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production - 8278
  Preserver, fruit - 7414
  Preserver, vegetable - 7414

8264  BLEACHING-, DYEING- AND CLEANING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 


     Bleaching-, dyeing- and cleaning-machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which bleach, dye, wash and otherwise treat
fibres, yarn, or cloth or dry clean textile, fur and leather
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which treat textile
     products to make them lighter in colour or to give them a
     specific colour;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which wash or dry-clean
     textile, fur or leather products to remove dirt, impurities,
     excess chemicals or natural gum;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which shrink cloth or
     strengthen the weave by interlocking the fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which impregnate textiles
     with chemicals to render them waterproof;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which treat silk to give
     it body and weight;

(f)  operating and monitoring machines which press, stretch, or
     impart lustre, or other type of finish to textiles;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dry-cleaning
  Machine-operator, dyeing/textile fibres
  Machine-operator, laundering
  Machine-operator, pressing/laundry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Launderer, hand - 91 33
  Presser, hand - 91 33

8275  FRUIT-, VEGETABLE- AND NUT-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fruit-, vegetable- and nut-processing machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which extract juice from fruit and
vegetables or oil from  oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit, and
which process fruit, vegetables and  nuts by drying, cooking,
canning or freezing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which extract juice from
     fruit and vegetables by heating or pressing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     oil from oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make margarine and
     similar products from animal and vegetable oils;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare fruit,
     vegetables and nuts for further processing ;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which dry, cook, can,
     freeze or otherwise process fruit, vegetables and nuts

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fruit processing
  Machine-operator, vegetable processing
  Press-operator, edible oils
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Expeller, oil - 7414
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production - 8278
  Preserver, fruit - 7414
  Preserver, vegetable - 7414

8290  OTHER MACHINE OPERATORS AND ASSEMBLERS
 

     Other machine operators and assemblers operate and monitor
machines which  pack, label and, if needed, add revenue stamps
to products, packages and  containers, or assemble, according to
strictly laid down procedures, products  whose component parts
are made of a wide range of materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which wrap and pack
     various products, including liquid ones, for storage or
     shipment;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which, by gluing or other
     methods, label products, packages and various containers,
     or add revenue stamps;

(c)  assembling, according to strictly laid down procedures,
     products whose component parts are made of a very wide range
     of materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, composite products
  Machine-operator, labelling
  Machine-operator, packing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Packer, hand - 9322

8223  METAL FINISHING-, PLATING AND COATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Metal finishing-, plating- and coating-machine operators
operate and  monitor equipment which finishes, plates and coats
metal articles or parts, in  order to give them improved
resistance to corrosion and abrasion, for  decorative purposes,
or to impart electrical or magnetic properties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which cleans metal
     articles in preparation for electroplating, galvanising,
     enamelling or similar processes;

(b)  operating and monitoring electroplating equipment;

(c)  operating and monitoring hot-dip equipment used to coat iron
     and steel products

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which automatically coat
     wire with non ferrous metal

(e)  operating and monitoring equipment used to spray molten
     metal or other substances on metal products to provide a
     protective or decorative coating or to build up worn or
     damaged surfaces;

(f)  operating and monitoring equipment used to impart a rust-
     resistant finish to metal articles by treating them with
     chemicals and heating them;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, coating/metal
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal
  Machine-operator, plating/metal

8252  BOOKBINDING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Bookbinding-machine operators operate and monitor machines
which bind and  emboss books.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring bookbinding machines ;

(b)  operating and monitoring pressing machines which emboss
     designs and titles on book covers;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, bookbinding
  Machine-operator, embossing/books
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Bookbinder - 7345
  Embosser, book - 7345

8253  PAPER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Paper-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  produce boxes, envelopes, bags and other goods
from paper, paperboard,  cardboard, cellophane and similar
materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which glue paper to
     cardboard, cut it to the required length or cut and crease
     cardboard or paperboard to form box blanks;

(b)  operating and monitoring pressing machines which form
     drinking cups or other containers from paper, paperboard or
     cardboard;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut, fold and glue
     paper to make envelopes and paper bags, or which form bags
     from other materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cardboard products
  Machine-operator, envelope and paper bag production
  Machine-operator, paper box production
  Machine-operator, paper products

8231  RUBBER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Rubber-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  knead and blend rubber and rubber compounds, and
produce various components  and products, from natural and
synthetic rubber, such as moulded footwear,  domestic articles,
insulating materials, industrial accessories, or tyres for 
bicycles, automobiles, tractors, aircraft and other vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which knead, mix and blend
     rubber and rubber compounds for further processing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which produce sheets of
     rubber or rubberised fabric by a rolling process ;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude compounded
     rubber or shape vulcanised rubber by moulding

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which build up tires on
     a form, vulcanise tires and mould or rebuild used tires;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, extruding/rubber
  Machine-operator, milling/rubber
  Machine-operator, tyre production

8262  WEAVING- AND KNITTING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Weaving- and knitting-machine operators operate and monitor
weaving and  knitting machines and related equipment used to
produce materials and fabrics.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to weave or knit
     plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpets, garments,
     hosiery or other fabrics or articles;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, knitting
  Machine-operator, net production
  Machine-operator, weaving
  Machine-operator, weaving/carpets
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Knitter - 7432
  Weaver, carpet - 7432 Weaver, cloth - 7432

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8212  CEMENT AND OTHER MINERAL PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Cement and other mineral products machine operators operate
and monitor  extrusion, moulding, mixing, grinding and cutting
machines which manufacture  and finish various precast concrete
and stone products, or which make cast  stone for building
purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring extrusion, moulding, grinding and
     cutting machines which manufacture and finish various
     precast concrete and stone products, such as flagstones,
     fencing posts, moulded pipe sections and trench liners,
     walling and partition slabs, building components, cable
     conduits, fume and dust extraction conduits;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which mix sand, gravel,
     cement and water to make concrete ;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cast-concrete products
  Machine-operator, cast-stone products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln-operator, cement production 8152
  Machine-operator, stone processing 8112

8240  WOOD-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Wood-products machine operators operate and monitor
automatic or  semi-automatic woodworking machines which perform
repetitive work and are  always set up by woodworking-machine
setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more previously set up
     machines for sawing, shaping, boring, planing, turning or
     carving wood;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, carving/wood
  Machine-operator, furniture production
  Machine-operator, wood products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, woodworking machine - 7423
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine - 7423

8224  PHOTOGRAPHIC-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Photographic-products machine operators operate and monitor
equipment  which makes photographic film and paper, and which
processes exposed  photographic film and makes prints.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which makes photographic
     film and paper;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines for coating and backing
     photographic plates;

(c)  operating and monitoring equipment which processes colour
     and black-and white films and plates to obtain negatives or
     transparent positives;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment which prints black-and-
     white or colour photographs or which enlarges or reduces
     photographs;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, developing/photography
  Machine-operator, enlarging/photography
  Machine-operator, photographic-film
  Machine-operator, printing/photography (colour)
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Developer, film/colour - 7344
  Enlarger, photograph - 7344
  Printer, photograph - 7344

8253  PAPER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Paper-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  produce boxes, envelopes, bags and other goods
from paper, paperboard,  cardboard, cellophane and similar
materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which glue paper to
     cardboard, cut it to the required length or cut and crease
     cardboard or paperboard to form box blanks;

(b)  operating and monitoring pressing machines which form
     drinking cups or other containers from paper, paperboard or
     cardboard;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut, fold and glue
     paper to make envelopes and paper bags, or which form bags
     from other materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cardboard products
  Machine-operator, envelope and paper bag production
  Machine-operator, paper box production
  Machine-operator, paper products

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8232  PLASTIC-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Plastic-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  knead and blend compounds to obtain plastic
materials and which make various  plastic components and
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which knead and blend
     compounds to obtain plastic materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which shape plastic
     materials by moulding, extrusion, cutting and other means;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which laminate plastics
     and plastic impregnated materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, extruding/plastics
  Machine-operator, moulding/plastics
  Machine-operator, plastics production

8240  WOOD-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Wood-products machine operators operate and monitor
automatic or  semi-automatic woodworking machines which perform
repetitive work and are  always set up by woodworking-machine
setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more previously set up
     machines for sawing, shaping, boring, planing, turning or
     carving wood;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, carving/wood
  Machine-operator, furniture production
  Machine-operator, wood products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, woodworking machine - 7423
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine - 7423

8222  AMMUNITION- AND EXPLOSIVE-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Ammunition- and explosive-products machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which process a variety of chemicals and
other ingredients in the  production of ammunition and
explosives.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which mix, blend and
     otherwise process chemicals to produce explosive substances
     such as nitrocellulose, gelignite and various types of
     propellants;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which make fuses for
     explosives and pyrotechnics;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which assemble and load
     shells, bombs, rockets, mines and similar devices;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, ammunition products
  Machine-operator, explosives production
  Machine-operator, match production

8124  METAL DRAWERS AND EXTRUDERS

 

     Metal drawers and extruders operate and monitor machinery
and equipment  which draw and extrude metals to make wire, tubes
and similar products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring wire-drawing machines;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines to draw seamless metal
     tubing;

(c)  operating and monitoring extrusion presses to make metal
     rods, bars and seamless tubing;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, drawing/wire
  Machine-operator, extruding/metal
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Drawer, wire - 7221

8232  PLASTIC-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Plastic-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  knead and blend compounds to obtain plastic
materials and which make various  plastic components and
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which knead and blend
     compounds to obtain plastic materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which shape plastic
     materials by moulding, extrusion, cutting and other means;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which laminate plastics
     and plastic impregnated materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, extruding/plastics
  Machine-operator, moulding/plastics
  Machine-operator, plastics production

8231  RUBBER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Rubber-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  knead and blend rubber and rubber compounds, and
produce various components  and products, from natural and
synthetic rubber, such as moulded footwear,  domestic articles,
insulating materials, industrial accessories, or tyres for 
bicycles, automobiles, tractors, aircraft and other vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which knead, mix and blend
     rubber and rubber compounds for further processing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which produce sheets of
     rubber or rubberised fabric by a rolling process ;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude compounded
     rubber or shape vulcanised rubber by moulding

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which build up tires on
     a form, vulcanise tires and mould or rebuild used tires;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, extruding/rubber
  Machine-operator, milling/rubber
  Machine-operator, tyre production

8232  PLASTIC-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Plastic-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  knead and blend compounds to obtain plastic
materials and which make various  plastic components and
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which knead and blend
     compounds to obtain plastic materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which shape plastic
     materials by moulding, extrusion, cutting and other means;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which laminate plastics
     and plastic impregnated materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, extruding/plastics
  Machine-operator, moulding/plastics
  Machine-operator, plastics production

8159  CHEMICAL-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-processing-plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 815, Chemical-processing
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment
which treat chemical  solutions with bleaching reagents, produce
coke or gas from coal, extrude and  form natural or synthetic
polymers into synthetic fibres, produce fertilisers,  or extract
and process radioactive materials.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which treats chemical
     solutions with bleaching reagents;

(b)  operating and monitoring plant which produces coke or gas
     from coal;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which extrudes or forms
     natural or synthetic polymers into synthetic fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring fertiliser plant equipment;

(e)  operating and monitoring plant which separates and extracts
     radioactive materials from their ores or processes such
     materials;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, coke production plant
  Operator, fertiliser plant
  Operator, synthetic-fibre production plant

8261  FIBRE-PREPARING, SPINNING- AND WINDING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fibre-preparing, spinning- and winding-machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which prepare fibres, and spin,
double, twist and wind  yarn and thread.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which combine textile
     fibres into uniform blends;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which clean and fluff
     textile fibres, transform them into sliver, comb them into
     sliver for first drawing, combine slivers into sliver lap
     or sliver laps into ribbon lap, combine several slivers into
     one attenuated strand of regular quality and weight;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which transform sliver
     into roving;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which spin thread and yarn
     from roving, wind two or more threads onto bobbin, twist two
     or more strands of yarn or thread into single heavier and
     stronger strand, or wind yarn or thread from one package to
     another;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fibre preparing
  Machine-operator, spinning/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, twisting/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, winding/thread and yarn
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Spinner - 7432

8290  OTHER MACHINE OPERATORS AND ASSEMBLERS
 

     Other machine operators and assemblers operate and monitor
machines which  pack, label and, if needed, add revenue stamps
to products, packages and  containers, or assemble, according to
strictly laid down procedures, products  whose component parts
are made of a wide range of materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which wrap and pack
     various products, including liquid ones, for storage or
     shipment;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which, by gluing or other
     methods, label products, packages and various containers,
     or add revenue stamps;

(c)  assembling, according to strictly laid down procedures,
     products whose component parts are made of a very wide range
     of materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, composite products
  Machine-operator, labelling
  Machine-operator, packing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Packer, hand - 9322

8224  PHOTOGRAPHIC-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Photographic-products machine operators operate and monitor
equipment  which makes photographic film and paper, and which
processes exposed  photographic film and makes prints.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which makes photographic
     film and paper;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines for coating and backing
     photographic plates;

(c)  operating and monitoring equipment which processes colour
     and black-and white films and plates to obtain negatives or
     transparent positives;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment which prints black-and-
     white or colour photographs or which enlarges or reduces
     photographs;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, developing/photography
  Machine-operator, enlarging/photography
  Machine-operator, photographic-film
  Machine-operator, printing/photography (colour)
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Developer, film/colour - 7344
  Enlarger, photograph - 7344
  Printer, photograph - 7344

8223  METAL FINISHING-, PLATING AND COATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Metal finishing-, plating- and coating-machine operators
operate and  monitor equipment which finishes, plates and coats
metal articles or parts, in  order to give them improved
resistance to corrosion and abrasion, for  decorative purposes,
or to impart electrical or magnetic properties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which cleans metal
     articles in preparation for electroplating, galvanising,
     enamelling or similar processes;

(b)  operating and monitoring electroplating equipment;

(c)  operating and monitoring hot-dip equipment used to coat iron
     and steel products

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which automatically coat
     wire with non ferrous metal

(e)  operating and monitoring equipment used to spray molten
     metal or other substances on metal products to provide a
     protective or decorative coating or to build up worn or
     damaged surfaces;

(f)  operating and monitoring equipment used to impart a rust-
     resistant finish to metal articles by treating them with
     chemicals and heating them;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, coating/metal
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal
  Machine-operator, plating/metal

8212  CEMENT AND OTHER MINERAL PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Cement and other mineral products machine operators operate
and monitor  extrusion, moulding, mixing, grinding and cutting
machines which manufacture  and finish various precast concrete
and stone products, or which make cast  stone for building
purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring extrusion, moulding, grinding and
     cutting machines which manufacture and finish various
     precast concrete and stone products, such as flagstones,
     fencing posts, moulded pipe sections and trench liners,
     walling and partition slabs, building components, cable
     conduits, fume and dust extraction conduits;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which mix sand, gravel,
     cement and water to make concrete ;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cast-concrete products
  Machine-operator, cast-stone products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln-operator, cement production 8152
  Machine-operator, stone processing 8112

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8223  METAL FINISHING-, PLATING AND COATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Metal finishing-, plating- and coating-machine operators
operate and  monitor equipment which finishes, plates and coats
metal articles or parts, in  order to give them improved
resistance to corrosion and abrasion, for  decorative purposes,
or to impart electrical or magnetic properties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which cleans metal
     articles in preparation for electroplating, galvanising,
     enamelling or similar processes;

(b)  operating and monitoring electroplating equipment;

(c)  operating and monitoring hot-dip equipment used to coat iron
     and steel products

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which automatically coat
     wire with non ferrous metal

(e)  operating and monitoring equipment used to spray molten
     metal or other substances on metal products to provide a
     protective or decorative coating or to build up worn or
     damaged surfaces;

(f)  operating and monitoring equipment used to impart a rust-
     resistant finish to metal articles by treating them with
     chemicals and heating them;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, coating/metal
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal
  Machine-operator, plating/metal

8265  FUR- AND LEATHER-PREPARING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fur- and leather-preparing-machine operators operate and
monitor various  machines which prepare leather or treat fur- or
wool-bearing pelts.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which remove flesh and fat
     from pelts before curing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which remove long coarse
     hair from fur pelts, trim hair to even length, and dye,
     stretch and smooth dressed pelts;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which separate residual
     wool from skins, or flesh and hair from hides, and which
     split hides;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which treat hides and
     skins in solutions and apply finishing product to convert
     them into leather;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which apply dyes and
     stains to leather;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dehairing/hide
  Machine-operator, staining/leather
  Machine-operator, tanning
Some related occupations classified elsewhere;
  Dyer, pelt - 7441
  Tanner - 7441

8232  PLASTIC-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Plastic-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  knead and blend compounds to obtain plastic
materials and which make various  plastic components and
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which knead and blend
     compounds to obtain plastic materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which shape plastic
     materials by moulding, extrusion, cutting and other means;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which laminate plastics
     and plastic impregnated materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, extruding/plastics
  Machine-operator, moulding/plastics
  Machine-operator, plastics production

8212  CEMENT AND OTHER MINERAL PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Cement and other mineral products machine operators operate
and monitor  extrusion, moulding, mixing, grinding and cutting
machines which manufacture  and finish various precast concrete
and stone products, or which make cast  stone for building
purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring extrusion, moulding, grinding and
     cutting machines which manufacture and finish various
     precast concrete and stone products, such as flagstones,
     fencing posts, moulded pipe sections and trench liners,
     walling and partition slabs, building components, cable
     conduits, fume and dust extraction conduits;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which mix sand, gravel,
     cement and water to make concrete ;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cast-concrete products
  Machine-operator, cast-stone products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln-operator, cement production 8152
  Machine-operator, stone processing 8112

8240  WOOD-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Wood-products machine operators operate and monitor
automatic or  semi-automatic woodworking machines which perform
repetitive work and are  always set up by woodworking-machine
setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more previously set up
     machines for sawing, shaping, boring, planing, turning or
     carving wood;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, carving/wood
  Machine-operator, furniture production
  Machine-operator, wood products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, woodworking machine - 7423
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine - 7423

8222  AMMUNITION- AND EXPLOSIVE-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Ammunition- and explosive-products machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which process a variety of chemicals and
other ingredients in the  production of ammunition and
explosives.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which mix, blend and
     otherwise process chemicals to produce explosive substances
     such as nitrocellulose, gelignite and various types of
     propellants;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which make fuses for
     explosives and pyrotechnics;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which assemble and load
     shells, bombs, rockets, mines and similar devices;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, ammunition products
  Machine-operator, explosives production
  Machine-operator, match production

8271  MEAT- AND FISH-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Meat- and fish-processing-machine operators operate and
monitor machines  used to slaughter animals, trim carcasses,
prepare standard meat or fish cuts,  and manufacture meat and
fish products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to slaughter animals
     and to cut carcasses or fish into standard pieces;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines used to mince and mix meat
     or fish;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines used to process meat and
     fish and manufacture various meat and fish products, such
as
     sausages, smoked meat or smoked fish;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines used to produce canned or
     frozen meat and fish dishes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fish processing
  Machine-operator, meat processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Butcher - 7411
  Fishmonger - 7411

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8265  FUR- AND LEATHER-PREPARING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fur- and leather-preparing-machine operators operate and
monitor various  machines which prepare leather or treat fur- or
wool-bearing pelts.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which remove flesh and fat
     from pelts before curing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which remove long coarse
     hair from fur pelts, trim hair to even length, and dye,
     stretch and smooth dressed pelts;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which separate residual
     wool from skins, or flesh and hair from hides, and which
     split hides;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which treat hides and
     skins in solutions and apply finishing product to convert
     them into leather;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which apply dyes and
     stains to leather;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dehairing/hide
  Machine-operator, staining/leather
  Machine-operator, tanning
Some related occupations classified elsewhere;
  Dyer, pelt - 7441
  Tanner - 7441

8253  PAPER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Paper-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  produce boxes, envelopes, bags and other goods
from paper, paperboard,  cardboard, cellophane and similar
materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which glue paper to
     cardboard, cut it to the required length or cut and crease
     cardboard or paperboard to form box blanks;

(b)  operating and monitoring pressing machines which form
     drinking cups or other containers from paper, paperboard or
     cardboard;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut, fold and glue
     paper to make envelopes and paper bags, or which form bags
     from other materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cardboard products
  Machine-operator, envelope and paper bag production
  Machine-operator, paper box production
  Machine-operator, paper products

8266  SHOEMAKING- AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Shoemaking- and related machine operators operate and
monitor machines  which produce and repair standard or special
footwear, handbags and other  accessories, mainly made of leather

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which mark patterns and
     cut shoe parts ;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which sew shoe parts
     together, or edge, polish, or apply ornaments and perform
     finishing tasks;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which produce luggage,
     handbags, belts and other accessories, as well as other
     items such as saddles, collars or harnesses;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, footwear production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cobbler - 7442
  Handicraft worker, leather - 7332

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8269  TEXTILE-, FUR- AND LEATHER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers textile-, fur- and leather-products
machine  operators not classified elsewhere in Minor group 826,
Textile-, fur- and  leather-products machine operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machines which make hats or
miscellaneous articles  such as braids or other trimmings.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which form and make hats
     out of textiles, fur or leather;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which make miscellaneous
     articles such as braids or other trimmings;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, braid production
  Machine-operator, hat making
  Machine-operator, pattern making/textiles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Milliner - 7433
  Pattern-maker, garment - 7435

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8272  DAIRY-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Dairy-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  process milk and cream and make dairy products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which pasteurise,
     homogenise and heat-treat milk and cream;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which make condensed or
     powdered milk;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make butter cheese
     and other milk or milk-based products;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
 Machine-operator, dairy products
 Machine-operator, pasteurising/milk
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
 Maker, butter - 7413
 Maker, cheese - 7413

8271  MEAT- AND FISH-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Meat- and fish-processing-machine operators operate and
monitor machines  used to slaughter animals, trim carcasses,
prepare standard meat or fish cuts,  and manufacture meat and
fish products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to slaughter animals
     and to cut carcasses or fish into standard pieces;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines used to mince and mix meat
     or fish;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines used to process meat and
     fish and manufacture various meat and fish products, such
as
     sausages, smoked meat or smoked fish;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines used to produce canned or
     frozen meat and fish dishes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fish processing
  Machine-operator, meat processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Butcher - 7411
  Fishmonger - 7411

8275  FRUIT-, VEGETABLE- AND NUT-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fruit-, vegetable- and nut-processing machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which extract juice from fruit and
vegetables or oil from  oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit, and
which process fruit, vegetables and  nuts by drying, cooking,
canning or freezing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which extract juice from
     fruit and vegetables by heating or pressing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     oil from oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make margarine and
     similar products from animal and vegetable oils;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare fruit,
     vegetables and nuts for further processing ;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which dry, cook, can,
     freeze or otherwise process fruit, vegetables and nuts

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fruit processing
  Machine-operator, vegetable processing
  Press-operator, edible oils
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Expeller, oil - 7414
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production - 8278
  Preserver, fruit - 7414
  Preserver, vegetable - 7414

8271  MEAT- AND FISH-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Meat- and fish-processing-machine operators operate and
monitor machines  used to slaughter animals, trim carcasses,
prepare standard meat or fish cuts,  and manufacture meat and
fish products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to slaughter animals
     and to cut carcasses or fish into standard pieces;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines used to mince and mix meat
     or fish;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines used to process meat and
     fish and manufacture various meat and fish products, such
as
     sausages, smoked meat or smoked fish;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines used to produce canned or
     frozen meat and fish dishes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fish processing
  Machine-operator, meat processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Butcher - 7411
  Fishmonger - 7411

8275  FRUIT-, VEGETABLE- AND NUT-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fruit-, vegetable- and nut-processing machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which extract juice from fruit and
vegetables or oil from  oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit, and
which process fruit, vegetables and  nuts by drying, cooking,
canning or freezing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which extract juice from
     fruit and vegetables by heating or pressing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     oil from oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make margarine and
     similar products from animal and vegetable oils;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare fruit,
     vegetables and nuts for further processing ;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which dry, cook, can,
     freeze or otherwise process fruit, vegetables and nuts

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fruit processing
  Machine-operator, vegetable processing
  Press-operator, edible oils
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Expeller, oil - 7414
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production - 8278
  Preserver, fruit - 7414
  Preserver, vegetable - 7414

8265  FUR- AND LEATHER-PREPARING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fur- and leather-preparing-machine operators operate and
monitor various  machines which prepare leather or treat fur- or
wool-bearing pelts.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which remove flesh and fat
     from pelts before curing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which remove long coarse
     hair from fur pelts, trim hair to even length, and dye,
     stretch and smooth dressed pelts;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which separate residual
     wool from skins, or flesh and hair from hides, and which
     split hides;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which treat hides and
     skins in solutions and apply finishing product to convert
     them into leather;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which apply dyes and
     stains to leather;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dehairing/hide
  Machine-operator, staining/leather
  Machine-operator, tanning
Some related occupations classified elsewhere;
  Dyer, pelt - 7441
  Tanner - 7441

8240  WOOD-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Wood-products machine operators operate and monitor
automatic or  semi-automatic woodworking machines which perform
repetitive work and are  always set up by woodworking-machine
setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more previously set up
     machines for sawing, shaping, boring, planing, turning or
     carving wood;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, carving/wood
  Machine-operator, furniture production
  Machine-operator, wood products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, woodworking machine - 7423
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine - 7423

8223  METAL FINISHING-, PLATING AND COATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Metal finishing-, plating- and coating-machine operators
operate and  monitor equipment which finishes, plates and coats
metal articles or parts, in  order to give them improved
resistance to corrosion and abrasion, for  decorative purposes,
or to impart electrical or magnetic properties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which cleans metal
     articles in preparation for electroplating, galvanising,
     enamelling or similar processes;

(b)  operating and monitoring electroplating equipment;

(c)  operating and monitoring hot-dip equipment used to coat iron
     and steel products

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which automatically coat
     wire with non ferrous metal

(e)  operating and monitoring equipment used to spray molten
     metal or other substances on metal products to provide a
     protective or decorative coating or to build up worn or
     damaged surfaces;

(f)  operating and monitoring equipment used to impart a rust-
     resistant finish to metal articles by treating them with
     chemicals and heating them;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, coating/metal
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal
  Machine-operator, plating/metal

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8139  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers glass and ceramics plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 813, Glass and ceramics
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment used
to mix ingredients for  glass-making or for the preparation of
clay, glaze and abrasives, or which  extrude molten glass in
order to form fibreglass filaments.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which mix ingredients for
     glass-making;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare clay for the
     production of ceramics and bricks;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines for making glaze or
     abrasives

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude molten glass
     to form fibreglass filaments ;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, mixing/clay
  Machine-operator, mixing/glass

8273  GRAIN- AND SPICE-MILLING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Grain- and spice-milling-machine operators operate and
monitor machinery  used to crush, grind, blend and otherwise
process grain, spices and related  foodstuffs for human or animal
consumption.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery used for the production
     of flour, meal and animal feed and for processing rice ;

(b)  operating and monitoring milling machines used for grinding
     grain and spices;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, milling/grain
  Machine-operator, milling/rice
  Machine-operator, milling/spices

8151  CRUSHING-, GRINDING- AND CHEMICAL-MIXING-MACHINERY OPERATORS
 

     Crushing-, grinding- and chemical-mixing-machinery operators
operate and  monitor machinery which crushes, grinds, mixes and
blends chemicals and other  materials used in chemical and
related processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mills and crushing machines which
     reduce solid chemicals and related materials to suitable
     size for further processing ;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines in which solids or liquids
     used in chemical and related processes are mixed or blended

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator,  crushing/chemical and related
        processes
  Machine-operator, mixing/chemical and related processes
  Operator, mill/chemical and related processes

8139  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers glass and ceramics plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 813, Glass and ceramics
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment used
to mix ingredients for  glass-making or for the preparation of
clay, glaze and abrasives, or which  extrude molten glass in
order to form fibreglass filaments.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which mix ingredients for
     glass-making;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare clay for the
     production of ceramics and bricks;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines for making glaze or
     abrasives

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude molten glass
     to form fibreglass filaments ;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, mixing/clay
  Machine-operator, mixing/glass

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8139  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers glass and ceramics plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 813, Glass and ceramics
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment used
to mix ingredients for  glass-making or for the preparation of
clay, glaze and abrasives, or which  extrude molten glass in
order to form fibreglass filaments.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which mix ingredients for
     glass-making;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare clay for the
     production of ceramics and bricks;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines for making glaze or
     abrasives

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude molten glass
     to form fibreglass filaments ;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, mixing/clay
  Machine-operator, mixing/glass

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8232  PLASTIC-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Plastic-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  knead and blend compounds to obtain plastic
materials and which make various  plastic components and
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which knead and blend
     compounds to obtain plastic materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which shape plastic
     materials by moulding, extrusion, cutting and other means;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which laminate plastics
     and plastic impregnated materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, extruding/plastics
  Machine-operator, moulding/plastics
  Machine-operator, plastics production

8112  MINERAL-ORE- AND STONE-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mineral-ore- and stone-processing-plant operators operate
and monitor  machinery and equipment for processing mineral ore
and stone.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which crushes and breaks
     lumps of minerals and stones to required size;

(b)  operating and monitoring washing, separating, leaching,
     precipitating, filtering, extracting and combining equipment
     to wash mineral ores in order to remove waste material;

(c)  combining mineral ores with solvents to facilitate further
     processing;

(d)  separating metal or mineral concentrates from ore or
     alluvial deposits by thickening, flotation, gravity
     separation, filtration, or magnetic or electrostatic
     separation;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Floatation worker, minerals
  Machine-operator, crushing/mineral ore
  Machine-operator, milling/minerals
  Machine-operator, stone processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cutter, stone - 7113
  Splitter, stone - 7113

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8142  PAPER-PULP PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Paper-pulp plant operators operate and monitor machinery and
equipment  which converts materials such as wood, rags, esparto,
straw, scrap-pulp and  paper into stock for use in papermaking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring chipper and grinding machines which
     reduce logs to pulp;

(b)  operating and monitoring digesters which produce pulp from
     materials such as wood, rags, esparto, straw or scrap-pulp
     and scrap paper;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which bleach wood pulp,
     rags, esparto, straw or scrap-pulp and scrap paper;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which mix, beat and
     hydrate pulp and other ingredients to prepare stuff for
     making paper;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, grinding/wood
  Operator, chipper/paper pulp
  Operator, paper-pulp plant

8229  CHEMICAL-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-products machine operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 822.  Chemical-products
machine operators.

     For instance here should be classified those who operate and
monitor  machines which produce chemical-based products such as
linoleum, candles,  halogen gases and related items.

     In such cases tasks would include:
(a)  operating and monitoring machines which make linoleum,
     candles, halogen gases and related chemical products;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, candle production
  Machine-operator, halogen gas production
  Machine-operator, linoleum production

8269  TEXTILE-, FUR- AND LEATHER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers textile-, fur- and leather-products
machine  operators not classified elsewhere in Minor group 826,
Textile-, fur- and  leather-products machine operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machines which make hats or
miscellaneous articles  such as braids or other trimmings.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which form and make hats
     out of textiles, fur or leather;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which make miscellaneous
     articles such as braids or other trimmings;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, braid production
  Machine-operator, hat making
  Machine-operator, pattern making/textiles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Milliner - 7433
  Pattern-maker, garment - 7435

8265  FUR- AND LEATHER-PREPARING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fur- and leather-preparing-machine operators operate and
monitor various  machines which prepare leather or treat fur- or
wool-bearing pelts.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which remove flesh and fat
     from pelts before curing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which remove long coarse
     hair from fur pelts, trim hair to even length, and dye,
     stretch and smooth dressed pelts;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which separate residual
     wool from skins, or flesh and hair from hides, and which
     split hides;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which treat hides and
     skins in solutions and apply finishing product to convert
     them into leather;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which apply dyes and
     stains to leather;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dehairing/hide
  Machine-operator, staining/leather
  Machine-operator, tanning
Some related occupations classified elsewhere;
  Dyer, pelt - 7441
  Tanner - 7441

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8273  GRAIN- AND SPICE-MILLING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Grain- and spice-milling-machine operators operate and
monitor machinery  used to crush, grind, blend and otherwise
process grain, spices and related  foodstuffs for human or animal
consumption.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery used for the production
     of flour, meal and animal feed and for processing rice ;

(b)  operating and monitoring milling machines used for grinding
     grain and spices;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, milling/grain
  Machine-operator, milling/rice
  Machine-operator, milling/spices

8229  CHEMICAL-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-products machine operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 822.  Chemical-products
machine operators.

     For instance here should be classified those who operate and
monitor  machines which produce chemical-based products such as
linoleum, candles,  halogen gases and related items.

     In such cases tasks would include:
(a)  operating and monitoring machines which make linoleum,
     candles, halogen gases and related chemical products;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, candle production
  Machine-operator, halogen gas production
  Machine-operator, linoleum production

8163  INCINERATOR, WATER-TREATMENT AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS

 

     Incinerator, water-treatment and related plant operators
operate and  monitor various types of plant, such as
incinerators, water treatment plant,  air and gas compressors,
pumping stations, refrigeration or heating and  ventilation
systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring incinerator machinery and equipment
     which burn garbage or other waste materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which
     purify and clarify water for human consumption or use and
     later disposal into natural water systems;

(c)  operating and monitoring air and gas compressors';

(d)  operating and monitoring pumping stations for transferring
     liquids, gases, semi-liquids and powdered substances from
     one location to another;

(e)  operating and monitoring refrigeration systems for cool or
     cold storage, or industrial processes;

(f)  operating and monitoring heating and ventilation systems ;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, incinerator/refuse disposal
  Operator, pumping-station/water
  Operator, water purification plant

8212  CEMENT AND OTHER MINERAL PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Cement and other mineral products machine operators operate
and monitor  extrusion, moulding, mixing, grinding and cutting
machines which manufacture  and finish various precast concrete
and stone products, or which make cast  stone for building
purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring extrusion, moulding, grinding and
     cutting machines which manufacture and finish various
     precast concrete and stone products, such as flagstones,
     fencing posts, moulded pipe sections and trench liners,
     walling and partition slabs, building components, cable
     conduits, fume and dust extraction conduits;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which mix sand, gravel,
     cement and water to make concrete ;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cast-concrete products
  Machine-operator, cast-stone products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln-operator, cement production 8152
  Machine-operator, stone processing 8112

8232  PLASTIC-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Plastic-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  knead and blend compounds to obtain plastic
materials and which make various  plastic components and
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which knead and blend
     compounds to obtain plastic materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which shape plastic
     materials by moulding, extrusion, cutting and other means;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which laminate plastics
     and plastic impregnated materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, extruding/plastics
  Machine-operator, moulding/plastics
  Machine-operator, plastics production

8290  OTHER MACHINE OPERATORS AND ASSEMBLERS
 

     Other machine operators and assemblers operate and monitor
machines which  pack, label and, if needed, add revenue stamps
to products, packages and  containers, or assemble, according to
strictly laid down procedures, products  whose component parts
are made of a wide range of materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which wrap and pack
     various products, including liquid ones, for storage or
     shipment;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which, by gluing or other
     methods, label products, packages and various containers,
     or add revenue stamps;

(c)  assembling, according to strictly laid down procedures,
     products whose component parts are made of a very wide range
     of materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, composite products
  Machine-operator, labelling
  Machine-operator, packing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Packer, hand - 9322

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8262  WEAVING- AND KNITTING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Weaving- and knitting-machine operators operate and monitor
weaving and  knitting machines and related equipment used to
produce materials and fabrics.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to weave or knit
     plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpets, garments,
     hosiery or other fabrics or articles;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, knitting
  Machine-operator, net production
  Machine-operator, weaving
  Machine-operator, weaving/carpets
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Knitter - 7432
  Weaver, carpet - 7432 Weaver, cloth - 7432

8290  OTHER MACHINE OPERATORS AND ASSEMBLERS
 

     Other machine operators and assemblers operate and monitor
machines which  pack, label and, if needed, add revenue stamps
to products, packages and  containers, or assemble, according to
strictly laid down procedures, products  whose component parts
are made of a wide range of materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which wrap and pack
     various products, including liquid ones, for storage or
     shipment;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which, by gluing or other
     methods, label products, packages and various containers,
     or add revenue stamps;

(c)  assembling, according to strictly laid down procedures,
     products whose component parts are made of a very wide range
     of materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, composite products
  Machine-operator, labelling
  Machine-operator, packing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Packer, hand - 9322

8262  WEAVING- AND KNITTING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Weaving- and knitting-machine operators operate and monitor
weaving and  knitting machines and related equipment used to
produce materials and fabrics.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to weave or knit
     plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpets, garments,
     hosiery or other fabrics or articles;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, knitting
  Machine-operator, net production
  Machine-operator, weaving
  Machine-operator, weaving/carpets
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Knitter - 7432
  Weaver, carpet - 7432 Weaver, cloth - 7432

8223  METAL FINISHING-, PLATING AND COATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Metal finishing-, plating- and coating-machine operators
operate and  monitor equipment which finishes, plates and coats
metal articles or parts, in  order to give them improved
resistance to corrosion and abrasion, for  decorative purposes,
or to impart electrical or magnetic properties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which cleans metal
     articles in preparation for electroplating, galvanising,
     enamelling or similar processes;

(b)  operating and monitoring electroplating equipment;

(c)  operating and monitoring hot-dip equipment used to coat iron
     and steel products

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which automatically coat
     wire with non ferrous metal

(e)  operating and monitoring equipment used to spray molten
     metal or other substances on metal products to provide a
     protective or decorative coating or to build up worn or
     damaged surfaces;

(f)  operating and monitoring equipment used to impart a rust-
     resistant finish to metal articles by treating them with
     chemicals and heating them;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, coating/metal
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal
  Machine-operator, plating/metal

8232  PLASTIC-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Plastic-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  knead and blend compounds to obtain plastic
materials and which make various  plastic components and
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which knead and blend
     compounds to obtain plastic materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which shape plastic
     materials by moulding, extrusion, cutting and other means;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which laminate plastics
     and plastic impregnated materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, extruding/plastics
  Machine-operator, moulding/plastics
  Machine-operator, plastics production

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8261  FIBRE-PREPARING, SPINNING- AND WINDING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fibre-preparing, spinning- and winding-machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which prepare fibres, and spin,
double, twist and wind  yarn and thread.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which combine textile
     fibres into uniform blends;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which clean and fluff
     textile fibres, transform them into sliver, comb them into
     sliver for first drawing, combine slivers into sliver lap
     or sliver laps into ribbon lap, combine several slivers into
     one attenuated strand of regular quality and weight;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which transform sliver
     into roving;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which spin thread and yarn
     from roving, wind two or more threads onto bobbin, twist two
     or more strands of yarn or thread into single heavier and
     stronger strand, or wind yarn or thread from one package to
     another;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fibre preparing
  Machine-operator, spinning/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, twisting/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, winding/thread and yarn
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Spinner - 7432

8264  BLEACHING-, DYEING- AND CLEANING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 


     Bleaching-, dyeing- and cleaning-machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which bleach, dye, wash and otherwise treat
fibres, yarn, or cloth or dry clean textile, fur and leather
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which treat textile
     products to make them lighter in colour or to give them a
     specific colour;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which wash or dry-clean
     textile, fur or leather products to remove dirt, impurities,
     excess chemicals or natural gum;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which shrink cloth or
     strengthen the weave by interlocking the fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which impregnate textiles
     with chemicals to render them waterproof;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which treat silk to give
     it body and weight;

(f)  operating and monitoring machines which press, stretch, or
     impart lustre, or other type of finish to textiles;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dry-cleaning
  Machine-operator, dyeing/textile fibres
  Machine-operator, laundering
  Machine-operator, pressing/laundry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Launderer, hand - 91 33
  Presser, hand - 91 33

8229  CHEMICAL-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-products machine operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 822.  Chemical-products
machine operators.

     For instance here should be classified those who operate and
monitor  machines which produce chemical-based products such as
linoleum, candles,  halogen gases and related items.

     In such cases tasks would include:
(a)  operating and monitoring machines which make linoleum,
     candles, halogen gases and related chemical products;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, candle production
  Machine-operator, halogen gas production
  Machine-operator, linoleum production

8265  FUR- AND LEATHER-PREPARING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fur- and leather-preparing-machine operators operate and
monitor various  machines which prepare leather or treat fur- or
wool-bearing pelts.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which remove flesh and fat
     from pelts before curing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which remove long coarse
     hair from fur pelts, trim hair to even length, and dye,
     stretch and smooth dressed pelts;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which separate residual
     wool from skins, or flesh and hair from hides, and which
     split hides;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which treat hides and
     skins in solutions and apply finishing product to convert
     them into leather;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which apply dyes and
     stains to leather;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dehairing/hide
  Machine-operator, staining/leather
  Machine-operator, tanning
Some related occupations classified elsewhere;
  Dyer, pelt - 7441
  Tanner - 7441

8253  PAPER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Paper-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  produce boxes, envelopes, bags and other goods
from paper, paperboard,  cardboard, cellophane and similar
materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which glue paper to
     cardboard, cut it to the required length or cut and crease
     cardboard or paperboard to form box blanks;

(b)  operating and monitoring pressing machines which form
     drinking cups or other containers from paper, paperboard or
     cardboard;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut, fold and glue
     paper to make envelopes and paper bags, or which form bags
     from other materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cardboard products
  Machine-operator, envelope and paper bag production
  Machine-operator, paper box production
  Machine-operator, paper products

8229  CHEMICAL-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-products machine operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 822.  Chemical-products
machine operators.

     For instance here should be classified those who operate and
monitor  machines which produce chemical-based products such as
linoleum, candles,  halogen gases and related items.

     In such cases tasks would include:
(a)  operating and monitoring machines which make linoleum,
     candles, halogen gases and related chemical products;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, candle production
  Machine-operator, halogen gas production
  Machine-operator, linoleum production

8278  BREWERS, WINE AND OTHER BEVERAGE  MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Brewers, wine and other beverage machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which mix, press, or malt and ferment
grains and fruit to make malt  liquors, wine and other alcoholic
or non-alcoholic beverages, except fruit and  vegetable juices.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which process barley and
     other grains used in making distilled and malt liquors, and
     controlling the fermentation process,

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which process grapes and
     other fruit used in making wines, and controlling the
     fermentation process;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which increase or reduce the
     alcohol content of alcoholic beverages;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend wines and
     liquors to obtain desired tastes and flavours;
(e)  operating and monitoring machines which make non-alcoholic
     beverages, except fruit and vegetable juices;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Brewer
  Machine-operator, malting/spirits
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, fruit juice production - 8275
  Taster, wine - 7415

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8112  MINERAL-ORE- AND STONE-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mineral-ore- and stone-processing-plant operators operate
and monitor  machinery and equipment for processing mineral ore
and stone.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which crushes and breaks
     lumps of minerals and stones to required size;

(b)  operating and monitoring washing, separating, leaching,
     precipitating, filtering, extracting and combining equipment
     to wash mineral ores in order to remove waste material;

(c)  combining mineral ores with solvents to facilitate further
     processing;

(d)  separating metal or mineral concentrates from ore or
     alluvial deposits by thickening, flotation, gravity
     separation, filtration, or magnetic or electrostatic
     separation;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Floatation worker, minerals
  Machine-operator, crushing/mineral ore
  Machine-operator, milling/minerals
  Machine-operator, stone processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cutter, stone - 7113
  Splitter, stone - 7113

8278  BREWERS, WINE AND OTHER BEVERAGE  MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Brewers, wine and other beverage machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which mix, press, or malt and ferment
grains and fruit to make malt  liquors, wine and other alcoholic
or non-alcoholic beverages, except fruit and  vegetable juices.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which process barley and
     other grains used in making distilled and malt liquors, and
     controlling the fermentation process,

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which process grapes and
     other fruit used in making wines, and controlling the
     fermentation process;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which increase or reduce the
     alcohol content of alcoholic beverages;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend wines and
     liquors to obtain desired tastes and flavours;
(e)  operating and monitoring machines which make non-alcoholic
     beverages, except fruit and vegetable juices;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Brewer
  Machine-operator, malting/spirits
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, fruit juice production - 8275
  Taster, wine - 7415

8275  FRUIT-, VEGETABLE- AND NUT-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fruit-, vegetable- and nut-processing machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which extract juice from fruit and
vegetables or oil from  oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit, and
which process fruit, vegetables and  nuts by drying, cooking,
canning or freezing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which extract juice from
     fruit and vegetables by heating or pressing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     oil from oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make margarine and
     similar products from animal and vegetable oils;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare fruit,
     vegetables and nuts for further processing ;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which dry, cook, can,
     freeze or otherwise process fruit, vegetables and nuts

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fruit processing
  Machine-operator, vegetable processing
  Press-operator, edible oils
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Expeller, oil - 7414
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production - 8278
  Preserver, fruit - 7414
  Preserver, vegetable - 7414

8290  OTHER MACHINE OPERATORS AND ASSEMBLERS
 

     Other machine operators and assemblers operate and monitor
machines which  pack, label and, if needed, add revenue stamps
to products, packages and  containers, or assemble, according to
strictly laid down procedures, products  whose component parts
are made of a wide range of materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which wrap and pack
     various products, including liquid ones, for storage or
     shipment;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which, by gluing or other
     methods, label products, packages and various containers,
     or add revenue stamps;

(c)  assembling, according to strictly laid down procedures,
     products whose component parts are made of a very wide range
     of materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, composite products
  Machine-operator, labelling
  Machine-operator, packing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Packer, hand - 9322

8240  WOOD-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Wood-products machine operators operate and monitor
automatic or  semi-automatic woodworking machines which perform
repetitive work and are  always set up by woodworking-machine
setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more previously set up
     machines for sawing, shaping, boring, planing, turning or
     carving wood;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, carving/wood
  Machine-operator, furniture production
  Machine-operator, wood products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, woodworking machine - 7423
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine - 7423

8222  AMMUNITION- AND EXPLOSIVE-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Ammunition- and explosive-products machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which process a variety of chemicals and
other ingredients in the  production of ammunition and
explosives.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which mix, blend and
     otherwise process chemicals to produce explosive substances
     such as nitrocellulose, gelignite and various types of
     propellants;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which make fuses for
     explosives and pyrotechnics;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which assemble and load
     shells, bombs, rockets, mines and similar devices;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, ammunition products
  Machine-operator, explosives production
  Machine-operator, match production

8269  TEXTILE-, FUR- AND LEATHER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers textile-, fur- and leather-products
machine  operators not classified elsewhere in Minor group 826,
Textile-, fur- and  leather-products machine operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machines which make hats or
miscellaneous articles  such as braids or other trimmings.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which form and make hats
     out of textiles, fur or leather;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which make miscellaneous
     articles such as braids or other trimmings;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, braid production
  Machine-operator, hat making
  Machine-operator, pattern making/textiles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Milliner - 7433
  Pattern-maker, garment - 7435

8271  MEAT- AND FISH-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Meat- and fish-processing-machine operators operate and
monitor machines  used to slaughter animals, trim carcasses,
prepare standard meat or fish cuts,  and manufacture meat and
fish products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to slaughter animals
     and to cut carcasses or fish into standard pieces;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines used to mince and mix meat
     or fish;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines used to process meat and
     fish and manufacture various meat and fish products, such
as
     sausages, smoked meat or smoked fish;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines used to produce canned or
     frozen meat and fish dishes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fish processing
  Machine-operator, meat processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Butcher - 7411
  Fishmonger - 7411

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8272  DAIRY-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Dairy-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  process milk and cream and make dairy products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which pasteurise,
     homogenise and heat-treat milk and cream;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which make condensed or
     powdered milk;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make butter cheese
     and other milk or milk-based products;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
 Machine-operator, dairy products
 Machine-operator, pasteurising/milk
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
 Maker, butter - 7413
 Maker, cheese - 7413

8151  CRUSHING-, GRINDING- AND CHEMICAL-MIXING-MACHINERY OPERATORS
 

     Crushing-, grinding- and chemical-mixing-machinery operators
operate and  monitor machinery which crushes, grinds, mixes and
blends chemicals and other  materials used in chemical and
related processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mills and crushing machines which
     reduce solid chemicals and related materials to suitable
     size for further processing ;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines in which solids or liquids
     used in chemical and related processes are mixed or blended

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator,  crushing/chemical and related
        processes
  Machine-operator, mixing/chemical and related processes
  Operator, mill/chemical and related processes

8273  GRAIN- AND SPICE-MILLING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Grain- and spice-milling-machine operators operate and
monitor machinery  used to crush, grind, blend and otherwise
process grain, spices and related  foodstuffs for human or animal
consumption.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery used for the production
     of flour, meal and animal feed and for processing rice ;

(b)  operating and monitoring milling machines used for grinding
     grain and spices;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, milling/grain
  Machine-operator, milling/rice
  Machine-operator, milling/spices

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8112  MINERAL-ORE- AND STONE-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mineral-ore- and stone-processing-plant operators operate
and monitor  machinery and equipment for processing mineral ore
and stone.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which crushes and breaks
     lumps of minerals and stones to required size;

(b)  operating and monitoring washing, separating, leaching,
     precipitating, filtering, extracting and combining equipment
     to wash mineral ores in order to remove waste material;

(c)  combining mineral ores with solvents to facilitate further
     processing;

(d)  separating metal or mineral concentrates from ore or
     alluvial deposits by thickening, flotation, gravity
     separation, filtration, or magnetic or electrostatic
     separation;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Floatation worker, minerals
  Machine-operator, crushing/mineral ore
  Machine-operator, milling/minerals
  Machine-operator, stone processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cutter, stone - 7113
  Splitter, stone - 7113

8273  GRAIN- AND SPICE-MILLING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Grain- and spice-milling-machine operators operate and
monitor machinery  used to crush, grind, blend and otherwise
process grain, spices and related  foodstuffs for human or animal
consumption.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery used for the production
     of flour, meal and animal feed and for processing rice ;

(b)  operating and monitoring milling machines used for grinding
     grain and spices;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, milling/grain
  Machine-operator, milling/rice
  Machine-operator, milling/spices

8275  FRUIT-, VEGETABLE- AND NUT-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fruit-, vegetable- and nut-processing machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which extract juice from fruit and
vegetables or oil from  oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit, and
which process fruit, vegetables and  nuts by drying, cooking,
canning or freezing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which extract juice from
     fruit and vegetables by heating or pressing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     oil from oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make margarine and
     similar products from animal and vegetable oils;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare fruit,
     vegetables and nuts for further processing ;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which dry, cook, can,
     freeze or otherwise process fruit, vegetables and nuts

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fruit processing
  Machine-operator, vegetable processing
  Press-operator, edible oils
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Expeller, oil - 7414
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production - 8278
  Preserver, fruit - 7414
  Preserver, vegetable - 7414

8273  GRAIN- AND SPICE-MILLING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Grain- and spice-milling-machine operators operate and
monitor machinery  used to crush, grind, blend and otherwise
process grain, spices and related  foodstuffs for human or animal
consumption.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery used for the production
     of flour, meal and animal feed and for processing rice ;

(b)  operating and monitoring milling machines used for grinding
     grain and spices;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, milling/grain
  Machine-operator, milling/rice
  Machine-operator, milling/spices

8231  RUBBER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Rubber-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  knead and blend rubber and rubber compounds, and
produce various components  and products, from natural and
synthetic rubber, such as moulded footwear,  domestic articles,
insulating materials, industrial accessories, or tyres for 
bicycles, automobiles, tractors, aircraft and other vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which knead, mix and blend
     rubber and rubber compounds for further processing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which produce sheets of
     rubber or rubberised fabric by a rolling process ;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude compounded
     rubber or shape vulcanised rubber by moulding

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which build up tires on
     a form, vulcanise tires and mould or rebuild used tires;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, extruding/rubber
  Machine-operator, milling/rubber
  Machine-operator, tyre production

8273  GRAIN- AND SPICE-MILLING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Grain- and spice-milling-machine operators operate and
monitor machinery  used to crush, grind, blend and otherwise
process grain, spices and related  foodstuffs for human or animal
consumption.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery used for the production
     of flour, meal and animal feed and for processing rice ;

(b)  operating and monitoring milling machines used for grinding
     grain and spices;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, milling/grain
  Machine-operator, milling/rice
  Machine-operator, milling/spices

8112  MINERAL-ORE- AND STONE-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mineral-ore- and stone-processing-plant operators operate
and monitor  machinery and equipment for processing mineral ore
and stone.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which crushes and breaks
     lumps of minerals and stones to required size;

(b)  operating and monitoring washing, separating, leaching,
     precipitating, filtering, extracting and combining equipment
     to wash mineral ores in order to remove waste material;

(c)  combining mineral ores with solvents to facilitate further
     processing;

(d)  separating metal or mineral concentrates from ore or
     alluvial deposits by thickening, flotation, gravity
     separation, filtration, or magnetic or electrostatic
     separation;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Floatation worker, minerals
  Machine-operator, crushing/mineral ore
  Machine-operator, milling/minerals
  Machine-operator, stone processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cutter, stone - 7113
  Splitter, stone - 7113

8141  WOOD-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Wood-processing-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment for sawing wood, cutting veneer and
making plywood, and otherwise  prepare wood for further use.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring log in-feed and conveyor systems;

(b)  operating and monitoring head saws, resaws and multiblade
     saws to saw logs, cants, flitches, slabs or wings and remove
     rough edges from sawn timber;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut veneer;

(d)  operating and monitoring plywood core-laying machines and
     hot-plate plywood presses;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, band-saw
  Operator, sawmill
  Operator, wood-processing plant
  Press-operator, plywood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Wood seasoner - 7421
  Wood treater - 7421

8112  MINERAL-ORE- AND STONE-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mineral-ore- and stone-processing-plant operators operate
and monitor  machinery and equipment for processing mineral ore
and stone.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which crushes and breaks
     lumps of minerals and stones to required size;

(b)  operating and monitoring washing, separating, leaching,
     precipitating, filtering, extracting and combining equipment
     to wash mineral ores in order to remove waste material;

(c)  combining mineral ores with solvents to facilitate further
     processing;

(d)  separating metal or mineral concentrates from ore or
     alluvial deposits by thickening, flotation, gravity
     separation, filtration, or magnetic or electrostatic
     separation;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Floatation worker, minerals
  Machine-operator, crushing/mineral ore
  Machine-operator, milling/minerals
  Machine-operator, stone processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cutter, stone - 7113
  Splitter, stone - 7113

8212  CEMENT AND OTHER MINERAL PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Cement and other mineral products machine operators operate
and monitor  extrusion, moulding, mixing, grinding and cutting
machines which manufacture  and finish various precast concrete
and stone products, or which make cast  stone for building
purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring extrusion, moulding, grinding and
     cutting machines which manufacture and finish various
     precast concrete and stone products, such as flagstones,
     fencing posts, moulded pipe sections and trench liners,
     walling and partition slabs, building components, cable
     conduits, fume and dust extraction conduits;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which mix sand, gravel,
     cement and water to make concrete ;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cast-concrete products
  Machine-operator, cast-stone products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln-operator, cement production 8152
  Machine-operator, stone processing 8112

8111  MINING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mining-plant operators operate and monitor machinery and
equipment which  cut channels in a mine or quarry workface or
drill holes for blasting, or they  operate continuous-mining
machines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery for cutting channels in
     a mine or quarry workface or for drilling blasting holes in
     mines or quarries;

(b)  operating and monitoring continuous mining machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cutting/mine
  Machine-operator, drilling/mine
  Machine-operator, mining/continuous
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Miner - 7111
  Quarrier - 7111
  Shotfirer - 7112

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8139  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers glass and ceramics plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 813, Glass and ceramics
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment used
to mix ingredients for  glass-making or for the preparation of
clay, glaze and abrasives, or which  extrude molten glass in
order to form fibreglass filaments.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which mix ingredients for
     glass-making;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare clay for the
     production of ceramics and bricks;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines for making glaze or
     abrasives

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude molten glass
     to form fibreglass filaments ;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, mixing/clay
  Machine-operator, mixing/glass

8151  CRUSHING-, GRINDING- AND CHEMICAL-MIXING-MACHINERY OPERATORS
 

     Crushing-, grinding- and chemical-mixing-machinery operators
operate and  monitor machinery which crushes, grinds, mixes and
blends chemicals and other  materials used in chemical and
related processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mills and crushing machines which
     reduce solid chemicals and related materials to suitable
     size for further processing ;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines in which solids or liquids
     used in chemical and related processes are mixed or blended

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator,  crushing/chemical and related
        processes
  Machine-operator, mixing/chemical and related processes
  Operator, mill/chemical and related processes

8139  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers glass and ceramics plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 813, Glass and ceramics
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment used
to mix ingredients for  glass-making or for the preparation of
clay, glaze and abrasives, or which  extrude molten glass in
order to form fibreglass filaments.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which mix ingredients for
     glass-making;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare clay for the
     production of ceramics and bricks;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines for making glaze or
     abrasives

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude molten glass
     to form fibreglass filaments ;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, mixing/clay
  Machine-operator, mixing/glass

8265  FUR- AND LEATHER-PREPARING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fur- and leather-preparing-machine operators operate and
monitor various  machines which prepare leather or treat fur- or
wool-bearing pelts.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which remove flesh and fat
     from pelts before curing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which remove long coarse
     hair from fur pelts, trim hair to even length, and dye,
     stretch and smooth dressed pelts;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which separate residual
     wool from skins, or flesh and hair from hides, and which
     split hides;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which treat hides and
     skins in solutions and apply finishing product to convert
     them into leather;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which apply dyes and
     stains to leather;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dehairing/hide
  Machine-operator, staining/leather
  Machine-operator, tanning
Some related occupations classified elsewhere;
  Dyer, pelt - 7441
  Tanner - 7441

8139  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers glass and ceramics plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 813, Glass and ceramics
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment used
to mix ingredients for  glass-making or for the preparation of
clay, glaze and abrasives, or which  extrude molten glass in
order to form fibreglass filaments.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which mix ingredients for
     glass-making;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare clay for the
     production of ceramics and bricks;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines for making glaze or
     abrasives

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude molten glass
     to form fibreglass filaments ;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, mixing/clay
  Machine-operator, mixing/glass

8123  METAL-HEAT-TREATING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Metal-heat-treating-plant operators operate and monitor
plant altering  the physical properties of metal objects by
heating, cooling and chemical  treatment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring furnaces which heat and cool metal
     objects to relieve internal stresses, restore ductility and
     refine grain structure;

(b)  operating and monitoring furnaces which harden steel
     objects;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which imparts a hard skin and
     tough, ductile core to steel objects by treating them with
     chemicals, heating and quenching or cooling them;

(d)  operating and monitoring furnaces which reheat hardened
     steel objects to relieve stresses and to impart toughness;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Annealer
  Furnace-operator, hardening/metal
  Furnace-operator, heat-treating/metal

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8232  PLASTIC-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Plastic-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  knead and blend compounds to obtain plastic
materials and which make various  plastic components and
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which knead and blend
     compounds to obtain plastic materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which shape plastic
     materials by moulding, extrusion, cutting and other means;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which laminate plastics
     and plastic impregnated materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, extruding/plastics
  Machine-operator, moulding/plastics
  Machine-operator, plastics production

8231  RUBBER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Rubber-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  knead and blend rubber and rubber compounds, and
produce various components  and products, from natural and
synthetic rubber, such as moulded footwear,  domestic articles,
insulating materials, industrial accessories, or tyres for 
bicycles, automobiles, tractors, aircraft and other vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which knead, mix and blend
     rubber and rubber compounds for further processing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which produce sheets of
     rubber or rubberised fabric by a rolling process ;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude compounded
     rubber or shape vulcanised rubber by moulding

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which build up tires on
     a form, vulcanise tires and mould or rebuild used tires;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, extruding/rubber
  Machine-operator, milling/rubber
  Machine-operator, tyre production

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8262  WEAVING- AND KNITTING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Weaving- and knitting-machine operators operate and monitor
weaving and  knitting machines and related equipment used to
produce materials and fabrics.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to weave or knit
     plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpets, garments,
     hosiery or other fabrics or articles;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, knitting
  Machine-operator, net production
  Machine-operator, weaving
  Machine-operator, weaving/carpets
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Knitter - 7432
  Weaver, carpet - 7432 Weaver, cloth - 7432

8274  BAKED-GOODS, CEREAL AND CHOCOLATE-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Baked-goods, cereal and chocolate-products machine operators
operate and  monitor mixing, blending, shaping and baking
machines which produce cereals,  bread, pastry, pasta, chocolate
and related products from flour, cocoa and  other ingredients.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which mix and blend flour
     with other ingredients to prepare dough for the production
     of bread, pastries, pasta and related products;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude and shape
     dough for the production of bread, pastries, pasta and
     related products;

(c)  operating and monitoring ovens used for baking bread,
     pastries, pasta and related products;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines used for making cereals-'

(e)  operating and monitoring machines used for making chocolate
     and confectionery;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, bread production
  Machine-operator, chocolate production
  Machine-operator, confectionery production
  Machine-operator, pastry production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Baker - 7412
  Maker, chocolate - 7412

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8290  OTHER MACHINE OPERATORS AND ASSEMBLERS
 

     Other machine operators and assemblers operate and monitor
machines which  pack, label and, if needed, add revenue stamps
to products, packages and  containers, or assemble, according to
strictly laid down procedures, products  whose component parts
are made of a wide range of materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which wrap and pack
     various products, including liquid ones, for storage or
     shipment;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which, by gluing or other
     methods, label products, packages and various containers,
     or add revenue stamps;

(c)  assembling, according to strictly laid down procedures,
     products whose component parts are made of a very wide range
     of materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, composite products
  Machine-operator, labelling
  Machine-operator, packing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Packer, hand - 9322

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8223  METAL FINISHING-, PLATING AND COATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Metal finishing-, plating- and coating-machine operators
operate and  monitor equipment which finishes, plates and coats
metal articles or parts, in  order to give them improved
resistance to corrosion and abrasion, for  decorative purposes,
or to impart electrical or magnetic properties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which cleans metal
     articles in preparation for electroplating, galvanising,
     enamelling or similar processes;

(b)  operating and monitoring electroplating equipment;

(c)  operating and monitoring hot-dip equipment used to coat iron
     and steel products

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which automatically coat
     wire with non ferrous metal

(e)  operating and monitoring equipment used to spray molten
     metal or other substances on metal products to provide a
     protective or decorative coating or to build up worn or
     damaged surfaces;

(f)  operating and monitoring equipment used to impart a rust-
     resistant finish to metal articles by treating them with
     chemicals and heating them;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, coating/metal
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal
  Machine-operator, plating/metal

8240  WOOD-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Wood-products machine operators operate and monitor
automatic or  semi-automatic woodworking machines which perform
repetitive work and are  always set up by woodworking-machine
setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more previously set up
     machines for sawing, shaping, boring, planing, turning or
     carving wood;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, carving/wood
  Machine-operator, furniture production
  Machine-operator, wood products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, woodworking machine - 7423
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine - 7423

8253  PAPER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Paper-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  produce boxes, envelopes, bags and other goods
from paper, paperboard,  cardboard, cellophane and similar
materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which glue paper to
     cardboard, cut it to the required length or cut and crease
     cardboard or paperboard to form box blanks;

(b)  operating and monitoring pressing machines which form
     drinking cups or other containers from paper, paperboard or
     cardboard;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut, fold and glue
     paper to make envelopes and paper bags, or which form bags
     from other materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cardboard products
  Machine-operator, envelope and paper bag production
  Machine-operator, paper box production
  Machine-operator, paper products

8143  PAPERMAKING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Papermaking-plant operators operate and monitor machinery
and equipment  which makes paper, paper board and sheet pulp from
pulp stock.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring section of papermaking machinery
     and equipment in which wet pulp is formed into paper or in
     which paper is dried, calendered, wound, slit and rewound;

(b)  operating and monitoring supercalenders used to impart gloss
     and finish to surface of paper;

(c)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment used to
     glaze or impregnate paper with coating mixture;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, papermaking plant
  Operator, supercalender

8274  BAKED-GOODS, CEREAL AND CHOCOLATE-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Baked-goods, cereal and chocolate-products machine operators
operate and  monitor mixing, blending, shaping and baking
machines which produce cereals,  bread, pastry, pasta, chocolate
and related products from flour, cocoa and  other ingredients.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which mix and blend flour
     with other ingredients to prepare dough for the production
     of bread, pastries, pasta and related products;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude and shape
     dough for the production of bread, pastries, pasta and
     related products;

(c)  operating and monitoring ovens used for baking bread,
     pastries, pasta and related products;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines used for making cereals-'

(e)  operating and monitoring machines used for making chocolate
     and confectionery;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, bread production
  Machine-operator, chocolate production
  Machine-operator, confectionery production
  Machine-operator, pastry production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Baker - 7412
  Maker, chocolate - 7412

8272  DAIRY-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Dairy-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  process milk and cream and make dairy products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which pasteurise,
     homogenise and heat-treat milk and cream;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which make condensed or
     powdered milk;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make butter cheese
     and other milk or milk-based products;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
 Machine-operator, dairy products
 Machine-operator, pasteurising/milk
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
 Maker, butter - 7413
 Maker, cheese - 7413

8274  BAKED-GOODS, CEREAL AND CHOCOLATE-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Baked-goods, cereal and chocolate-products machine operators
operate and  monitor mixing, blending, shaping and baking
machines which produce cereals,  bread, pastry, pasta, chocolate
and related products from flour, cocoa and  other ingredients.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which mix and blend flour
     with other ingredients to prepare dough for the production
     of bread, pastries, pasta and related products;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude and shape
     dough for the production of bread, pastries, pasta and
     related products;

(c)  operating and monitoring ovens used for baking bread,
     pastries, pasta and related products;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines used for making cereals-'

(e)  operating and monitoring machines used for making chocolate
     and confectionery;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, bread production
  Machine-operator, chocolate production
  Machine-operator, confectionery production
  Machine-operator, pastry production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Baker - 7412
  Maker, chocolate - 7412

8269  TEXTILE-, FUR- AND LEATHER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers textile-, fur- and leather-products
machine  operators not classified elsewhere in Minor group 826,
Textile-, fur- and  leather-products machine operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machines which make hats or
miscellaneous articles  such as braids or other trimmings.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which form and make hats
     out of textiles, fur or leather;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which make miscellaneous
     articles such as braids or other trimmings;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, braid production
  Machine-operator, hat making
  Machine-operator, pattern making/textiles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Milliner - 7433
  Pattern-maker, garment - 7435

8290  OTHER MACHINE OPERATORS AND ASSEMBLERS
 

     Other machine operators and assemblers operate and monitor
machines which  pack, label and, if needed, add revenue stamps
to products, packages and  containers, or assemble, according to
strictly laid down procedures, products  whose component parts
are made of a wide range of materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which wrap and pack
     various products, including liquid ones, for storage or
     shipment;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which, by gluing or other
     methods, label products, packages and various containers,
     or add revenue stamps;

(c)  assembling, according to strictly laid down procedures,
     products whose component parts are made of a very wide range
     of materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, composite products
  Machine-operator, labelling
  Machine-operator, packing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Packer, hand - 9322

8265  FUR- AND LEATHER-PREPARING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fur- and leather-preparing-machine operators operate and
monitor various  machines which prepare leather or treat fur- or
wool-bearing pelts.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which remove flesh and fat
     from pelts before curing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which remove long coarse
     hair from fur pelts, trim hair to even length, and dye,
     stretch and smooth dressed pelts;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which separate residual
     wool from skins, or flesh and hair from hides, and which
     split hides;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which treat hides and
     skins in solutions and apply finishing product to convert
     them into leather;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which apply dyes and
     stains to leather;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dehairing/hide
  Machine-operator, staining/leather
  Machine-operator, tanning
Some related occupations classified elsewhere;
  Dyer, pelt - 7441
  Tanner - 7441

8229  CHEMICAL-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-products machine operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 822.  Chemical-products
machine operators.

     For instance here should be classified those who operate and
monitor  machines which produce chemical-based products such as
linoleum, candles,  halogen gases and related items.

     In such cases tasks would include:
(a)  operating and monitoring machines which make linoleum,
     candles, halogen gases and related chemical products;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, candle production
  Machine-operator, halogen gas production
  Machine-operator, linoleum production

8221  PHARMACEUTICAL- AND TOILETRY-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Pharmaceutical- and toiletry-products machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which process a variety of
chemicals and other ingredients  used in the production of
pharmaceuticals and toiletries.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines for moulding, filtering,
     fermenting, heating, mixing, grinding, filling and sealing
     materials used in the production of pharmaceuticals,
     toiletries, detergents and related products;

(b)  operating controls to regulate temperature, pressure, flow
     and speed of operation ;

(c)  cleaning and disinfecting equipment;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, detergent production
  Machine-operator, pharmaceutical products
  Machine-operator, toiletries production

8251  PRINTING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Printing-machine operators operate and monitor various types
of machines  which print on paper, tin plate and other materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring cylinder, platen, rotary, offset,
     direct lithographic, rotogravure, and wallpaper-printing
     presses,

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Press-operator, printing/cylinder
  Press-operator, printing/offset
  Press-operator, printing/rotary
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Compositor printing - 7341
  Printer - 7341
  Typesetter - 7341

8224  PHOTOGRAPHIC-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Photographic-products machine operators operate and monitor
equipment  which makes photographic film and paper, and which
processes exposed  photographic film and makes prints.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which makes photographic
     film and paper;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines for coating and backing
     photographic plates;

(c)  operating and monitoring equipment which processes colour
     and black-and white films and plates to obtain negatives or
     transparent positives;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment which prints black-and-
     white or colour photographs or which enlarges or reduces
     photographs;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, developing/photography
  Machine-operator, enlarging/photography
  Machine-operator, photographic-film
  Machine-operator, printing/photography (colour)
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Developer, film/colour - 7344
  Enlarger, photograph - 7344
  Printer, photograph - 7344

8290  OTHER MACHINE OPERATORS AND ASSEMBLERS
 

     Other machine operators and assemblers operate and monitor
machines which  pack, label and, if needed, add revenue stamps
to products, packages and  containers, or assemble, according to
strictly laid down procedures, products  whose component parts
are made of a wide range of materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which wrap and pack
     various products, including liquid ones, for storage or
     shipment;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which, by gluing or other
     methods, label products, packages and various containers,
     or add revenue stamps;

(c)  assembling, according to strictly laid down procedures,
     products whose component parts are made of a very wide range
     of materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, composite products
  Machine-operator, labelling
  Machine-operator, packing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Packer, hand - 9322

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8112  MINERAL-ORE- AND STONE-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mineral-ore- and stone-processing-plant operators operate
and monitor  machinery and equipment for processing mineral ore
and stone.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which crushes and breaks
     lumps of minerals and stones to required size;

(b)  operating and monitoring washing, separating, leaching,
     precipitating, filtering, extracting and combining equipment
     to wash mineral ores in order to remove waste material;

(c)  combining mineral ores with solvents to facilitate further
     processing;

(d)  separating metal or mineral concentrates from ore or
     alluvial deposits by thickening, flotation, gravity
     separation, filtration, or magnetic or electrostatic
     separation;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Floatation worker, minerals
  Machine-operator, crushing/mineral ore
  Machine-operator, milling/minerals
  Machine-operator, stone processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cutter, stone - 7113
  Splitter, stone - 7113

8141  WOOD-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Wood-processing-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment for sawing wood, cutting veneer and
making plywood, and otherwise  prepare wood for further use.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring log in-feed and conveyor systems;

(b)  operating and monitoring head saws, resaws and multiblade
     saws to saw logs, cants, flitches, slabs or wings and remove
     rough edges from sawn timber;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut veneer;

(d)  operating and monitoring plywood core-laying machines and
     hot-plate plywood presses;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, band-saw
  Operator, sawmill
  Operator, wood-processing plant
  Press-operator, plywood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Wood seasoner - 7421
  Wood treater - 7421

8232  PLASTIC-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Plastic-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  knead and blend compounds to obtain plastic
materials and which make various  plastic components and
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which knead and blend
     compounds to obtain plastic materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which shape plastic
     materials by moulding, extrusion, cutting and other means;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which laminate plastics
     and plastic impregnated materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, extruding/plastics
  Machine-operator, moulding/plastics
  Machine-operator, plastics production

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8223  METAL FINISHING-, PLATING AND COATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Metal finishing-, plating- and coating-machine operators
operate and  monitor equipment which finishes, plates and coats
metal articles or parts, in  order to give them improved
resistance to corrosion and abrasion, for  decorative purposes,
or to impart electrical or magnetic properties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which cleans metal
     articles in preparation for electroplating, galvanising,
     enamelling or similar processes;

(b)  operating and monitoring electroplating equipment;

(c)  operating and monitoring hot-dip equipment used to coat iron
     and steel products

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which automatically coat
     wire with non ferrous metal

(e)  operating and monitoring equipment used to spray molten
     metal or other substances on metal products to provide a
     protective or decorative coating or to build up worn or
     damaged surfaces;

(f)  operating and monitoring equipment used to impart a rust-
     resistant finish to metal articles by treating them with
     chemicals and heating them;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, coating/metal
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal
  Machine-operator, plating/metal

8141  WOOD-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Wood-processing-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment for sawing wood, cutting veneer and
making plywood, and otherwise  prepare wood for further use.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring log in-feed and conveyor systems;

(b)  operating and monitoring head saws, resaws and multiblade
     saws to saw logs, cants, flitches, slabs or wings and remove
     rough edges from sawn timber;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut veneer;

(d)  operating and monitoring plywood core-laying machines and
     hot-plate plywood presses;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, band-saw
  Operator, sawmill
  Operator, wood-processing plant
  Press-operator, plywood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Wood seasoner - 7421
  Wood treater - 7421

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8212  CEMENT AND OTHER MINERAL PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Cement and other mineral products machine operators operate
and monitor  extrusion, moulding, mixing, grinding and cutting
machines which manufacture  and finish various precast concrete
and stone products, or which make cast  stone for building
purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring extrusion, moulding, grinding and
     cutting machines which manufacture and finish various
     precast concrete and stone products, such as flagstones,
     fencing posts, moulded pipe sections and trench liners,
     walling and partition slabs, building components, cable
     conduits, fume and dust extraction conduits;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which mix sand, gravel,
     cement and water to make concrete ;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cast-concrete products
  Machine-operator, cast-stone products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln-operator, cement production 8152
  Machine-operator, stone processing 8112

8223  METAL FINISHING-, PLATING AND COATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Metal finishing-, plating- and coating-machine operators
operate and  monitor equipment which finishes, plates and coats
metal articles or parts, in  order to give them improved
resistance to corrosion and abrasion, for  decorative purposes,
or to impart electrical or magnetic properties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which cleans metal
     articles in preparation for electroplating, galvanising,
     enamelling or similar processes;

(b)  operating and monitoring electroplating equipment;

(c)  operating and monitoring hot-dip equipment used to coat iron
     and steel products

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which automatically coat
     wire with non ferrous metal

(e)  operating and monitoring equipment used to spray molten
     metal or other substances on metal products to provide a
     protective or decorative coating or to build up worn or
     damaged surfaces;

(f)  operating and monitoring equipment used to impart a rust-
     resistant finish to metal articles by treating them with
     chemicals and heating them;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, coating/metal
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal
  Machine-operator, plating/metal

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8212  CEMENT AND OTHER MINERAL PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Cement and other mineral products machine operators operate
and monitor  extrusion, moulding, mixing, grinding and cutting
machines which manufacture  and finish various precast concrete
and stone products, or which make cast  stone for building
purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring extrusion, moulding, grinding and
     cutting machines which manufacture and finish various
     precast concrete and stone products, such as flagstones,
     fencing posts, moulded pipe sections and trench liners,
     walling and partition slabs, building components, cable
     conduits, fume and dust extraction conduits;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which mix sand, gravel,
     cement and water to make concrete ;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cast-concrete products
  Machine-operator, cast-stone products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln-operator, cement production 8152
  Machine-operator, stone processing 8112

8240  WOOD-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Wood-products machine operators operate and monitor
automatic or  semi-automatic woodworking machines which perform
repetitive work and are  always set up by woodworking-machine
setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more previously set up
     machines for sawing, shaping, boring, planing, turning or
     carving wood;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, carving/wood
  Machine-operator, furniture production
  Machine-operator, wood products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, woodworking machine - 7423
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine - 7423

8253  PAPER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Paper-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  produce boxes, envelopes, bags and other goods
from paper, paperboard,  cardboard, cellophane and similar
materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which glue paper to
     cardboard, cut it to the required length or cut and crease
     cardboard or paperboard to form box blanks;

(b)  operating and monitoring pressing machines which form
     drinking cups or other containers from paper, paperboard or
     cardboard;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut, fold and glue
     paper to make envelopes and paper bags, or which form bags
     from other materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cardboard products
  Machine-operator, envelope and paper bag production
  Machine-operator, paper box production
  Machine-operator, paper products

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8122  METAL MELTERS, CASTERS AND ROLLING-MILL OPERATORS
 

     Metal melters, casters and rolling-mill operators operate
and monitor  rolling mills to roll metal, or furnaces to melt or
reheat metal, or machines  to cast metal.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring furnaces to melt ferrous and non-
     ferrous metal for casting;

(b)  operating and monitoring furnaces to reheat stock metal
     forms prior to forging, power-pressing, rolling and further
     processing;

(c)  operating and monitoring rolling mills to shape hot or cold
     steel into shapes for further processing, or into final
     shapes;

(d)  operating and monitoring rolling mills to reduce or form hot
     or cold non-ferrous metal to specified shapes, such as
     plate, sheet or foil;

(e)  operating and monitoring rolls to form seamless tubes and
     pipes from billets which have been pierced longitudinally;

(f)  pouring molten metal into moulds and operating and
     monitoring casting machines

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, melting/metal
  Machine-operator, casting/metal
  Operator, rolling mill/nonferrous metal

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8271  MEAT- AND FISH-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Meat- and fish-processing-machine operators operate and
monitor machines  used to slaughter animals, trim carcasses,
prepare standard meat or fish cuts,  and manufacture meat and
fish products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to slaughter animals
     and to cut carcasses or fish into standard pieces;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines used to mince and mix meat
     or fish;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines used to process meat and
     fish and manufacture various meat and fish products, such
as
     sausages, smoked meat or smoked fish;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines used to produce canned or
     frozen meat and fish dishes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fish processing
  Machine-operator, meat processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Butcher - 7411
  Fishmonger - 7411

8275  FRUIT-, VEGETABLE- AND NUT-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fruit-, vegetable- and nut-processing machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which extract juice from fruit and
vegetables or oil from  oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit, and
which process fruit, vegetables and  nuts by drying, cooking,
canning or freezing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which extract juice from
     fruit and vegetables by heating or pressing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     oil from oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make margarine and
     similar products from animal and vegetable oils;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare fruit,
     vegetables and nuts for further processing ;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which dry, cook, can,
     freeze or otherwise process fruit, vegetables and nuts

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fruit processing
  Machine-operator, vegetable processing
  Press-operator, edible oils
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Expeller, oil - 7414
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production - 8278
  Preserver, fruit - 7414
  Preserver, vegetable - 7414

8271  MEAT- AND FISH-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Meat- and fish-processing-machine operators operate and
monitor machines  used to slaughter animals, trim carcasses,
prepare standard meat or fish cuts,  and manufacture meat and
fish products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to slaughter animals
     and to cut carcasses or fish into standard pieces;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines used to mince and mix meat
     or fish;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines used to process meat and
     fish and manufacture various meat and fish products, such
as
     sausages, smoked meat or smoked fish;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines used to produce canned or
     frozen meat and fish dishes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fish processing
  Machine-operator, meat processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Butcher - 7411
  Fishmonger - 7411

8275  FRUIT-, VEGETABLE- AND NUT-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fruit-, vegetable- and nut-processing machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which extract juice from fruit and
vegetables or oil from  oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit, and
which process fruit, vegetables and  nuts by drying, cooking,
canning or freezing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which extract juice from
     fruit and vegetables by heating or pressing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     oil from oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make margarine and
     similar products from animal and vegetable oils;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare fruit,
     vegetables and nuts for further processing ;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which dry, cook, can,
     freeze or otherwise process fruit, vegetables and nuts

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fruit processing
  Machine-operator, vegetable processing
  Press-operator, edible oils
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Expeller, oil - 7414
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production - 8278
  Preserver, fruit - 7414
  Preserver, vegetable - 7414

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8264  BLEACHING-, DYEING- AND CLEANING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 


     Bleaching-, dyeing- and cleaning-machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which bleach, dye, wash and otherwise treat
fibres, yarn, or cloth or dry clean textile, fur and leather
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which treat textile
     products to make them lighter in colour or to give them a
     specific colour;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which wash or dry-clean
     textile, fur or leather products to remove dirt, impurities,
     excess chemicals or natural gum;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which shrink cloth or
     strengthen the weave by interlocking the fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which impregnate textiles
     with chemicals to render them waterproof;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which treat silk to give
     it body and weight;

(f)  operating and monitoring machines which press, stretch, or
     impart lustre, or other type of finish to textiles;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dry-cleaning
  Machine-operator, dyeing/textile fibres
  Machine-operator, laundering
  Machine-operator, pressing/laundry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Launderer, hand - 91 33
  Presser, hand - 91 33

8251  PRINTING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Printing-machine operators operate and monitor various types
of machines  which print on paper, tin plate and other materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring cylinder, platen, rotary, offset,
     direct lithographic, rotogravure, and wallpaper-printing
     presses,

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Press-operator, printing/cylinder
  Press-operator, printing/offset
  Press-operator, printing/rotary
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Compositor printing - 7341
  Printer - 7341
  Typesetter - 7341

8224  PHOTOGRAPHIC-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Photographic-products machine operators operate and monitor
equipment  which makes photographic film and paper, and which
processes exposed  photographic film and makes prints.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which makes photographic
     film and paper;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines for coating and backing
     photographic plates;

(c)  operating and monitoring equipment which processes colour
     and black-and white films and plates to obtain negatives or
     transparent positives;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment which prints black-and-
     white or colour photographs or which enlarges or reduces
     photographs;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, developing/photography
  Machine-operator, enlarging/photography
  Machine-operator, photographic-film
  Machine-operator, printing/photography (colour)
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Developer, film/colour - 7344
  Enlarger, photograph - 7344
  Printer, photograph - 7344

8251  PRINTING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Printing-machine operators operate and monitor various types
of machines  which print on paper, tin plate and other materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring cylinder, platen, rotary, offset,
     direct lithographic, rotogravure, and wallpaper-printing
     presses,

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Press-operator, printing/cylinder
  Press-operator, printing/offset
  Press-operator, printing/rotary
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Compositor printing - 7341
  Printer - 7341
  Typesetter - 7341

8142  PAPER-PULP PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Paper-pulp plant operators operate and monitor machinery and
equipment  which converts materials such as wood, rags, esparto,
straw, scrap-pulp and  paper into stock for use in papermaking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring chipper and grinding machines which
     reduce logs to pulp;

(b)  operating and monitoring digesters which produce pulp from
     materials such as wood, rags, esparto, straw or scrap-pulp
     and scrap paper;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which bleach wood pulp,
     rags, esparto, straw or scrap-pulp and scrap paper;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which mix, beat and
     hydrate pulp and other ingredients to prepare stuff for
     making paper;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, grinding/wood
  Operator, chipper/paper pulp
  Operator, paper-pulp plant

8151  CRUSHING-, GRINDING- AND CHEMICAL-MIXING-MACHINERY OPERATORS
 

     Crushing-, grinding- and chemical-mixing-machinery operators
operate and  monitor machinery which crushes, grinds, mixes and
blends chemicals and other  materials used in chemical and
related processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mills and crushing machines which
     reduce solid chemicals and related materials to suitable
     size for further processing ;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines in which solids or liquids
     used in chemical and related processes are mixed or blended

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator,  crushing/chemical and related
        processes
  Machine-operator, mixing/chemical and related processes
  Operator, mill/chemical and related processes

8112  MINERAL-ORE- AND STONE-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mineral-ore- and stone-processing-plant operators operate
and monitor  machinery and equipment for processing mineral ore
and stone.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which crushes and breaks
     lumps of minerals and stones to required size;

(b)  operating and monitoring washing, separating, leaching,
     precipitating, filtering, extracting and combining equipment
     to wash mineral ores in order to remove waste material;

(c)  combining mineral ores with solvents to facilitate further
     processing;

(d)  separating metal or mineral concentrates from ore or
     alluvial deposits by thickening, flotation, gravity
     separation, filtration, or magnetic or electrostatic
     separation;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Floatation worker, minerals
  Machine-operator, crushing/mineral ore
  Machine-operator, milling/minerals
  Machine-operator, stone processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cutter, stone - 7113
  Splitter, stone - 7113

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8231  RUBBER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Rubber-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  knead and blend rubber and rubber compounds, and
produce various components  and products, from natural and
synthetic rubber, such as moulded footwear,  domestic articles,
insulating materials, industrial accessories, or tyres for 
bicycles, automobiles, tractors, aircraft and other vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which knead, mix and blend
     rubber and rubber compounds for further processing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which produce sheets of
     rubber or rubberised fabric by a rolling process ;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude compounded
     rubber or shape vulcanised rubber by moulding

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which build up tires on
     a form, vulcanise tires and mould or rebuild used tires;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, extruding/rubber
  Machine-operator, milling/rubber
  Machine-operator, tyre production

8261  FIBRE-PREPARING, SPINNING- AND WINDING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fibre-preparing, spinning- and winding-machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which prepare fibres, and spin,
double, twist and wind  yarn and thread.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which combine textile
     fibres into uniform blends;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which clean and fluff
     textile fibres, transform them into sliver, comb them into
     sliver for first drawing, combine slivers into sliver lap
     or sliver laps into ribbon lap, combine several slivers into
     one attenuated strand of regular quality and weight;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which transform sliver
     into roving;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which spin thread and yarn
     from roving, wind two or more threads onto bobbin, twist two
     or more strands of yarn or thread into single heavier and
     stronger strand, or wind yarn or thread from one package to
     another;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fibre preparing
  Machine-operator, spinning/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, twisting/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, winding/thread and yarn
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Spinner - 7432

8223  METAL FINISHING-, PLATING AND COATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Metal finishing-, plating- and coating-machine operators
operate and  monitor equipment which finishes, plates and coats
metal articles or parts, in  order to give them improved
resistance to corrosion and abrasion, for  decorative purposes,
or to impart electrical or magnetic properties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which cleans metal
     articles in preparation for electroplating, galvanising,
     enamelling or similar processes;

(b)  operating and monitoring electroplating equipment;

(c)  operating and monitoring hot-dip equipment used to coat iron
     and steel products

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which automatically coat
     wire with non ferrous metal

(e)  operating and monitoring equipment used to spray molten
     metal or other substances on metal products to provide a
     protective or decorative coating or to build up worn or
     damaged surfaces;

(f)  operating and monitoring equipment used to impart a rust-
     resistant finish to metal articles by treating them with
     chemicals and heating them;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, coating/metal
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal
  Machine-operator, plating/metal

8275  FRUIT-, VEGETABLE- AND NUT-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fruit-, vegetable- and nut-processing machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which extract juice from fruit and
vegetables or oil from  oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit, and
which process fruit, vegetables and  nuts by drying, cooking,
canning or freezing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which extract juice from
     fruit and vegetables by heating or pressing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     oil from oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make margarine and
     similar products from animal and vegetable oils;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare fruit,
     vegetables and nuts for further processing ;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which dry, cook, can,
     freeze or otherwise process fruit, vegetables and nuts

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fruit processing
  Machine-operator, vegetable processing
  Press-operator, edible oils
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Expeller, oil - 7414
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production - 8278
  Preserver, fruit - 7414
  Preserver, vegetable - 7414

8276  SUGAR PRODUCTION MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Sugar production machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  process sugar-cane and sugar-beet and produce
refined sugar

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which crush sugar-cane or
     extract liquor from sugar-beet;

(b)  operating and monitoring tanks used to purify sugar liquor
     or produce sugar crystals from hot sugar liquor;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which refine sugar-beet
     or sugar-cane by a continuous process;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     sugar juices from maple, palm and other vegetable sources'.

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which process honey;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, sugar production

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8261  FIBRE-PREPARING, SPINNING- AND WINDING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fibre-preparing, spinning- and winding-machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which prepare fibres, and spin,
double, twist and wind  yarn and thread.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which combine textile
     fibres into uniform blends;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which clean and fluff
     textile fibres, transform them into sliver, comb them into
     sliver for first drawing, combine slivers into sliver lap
     or sliver laps into ribbon lap, combine several slivers into
     one attenuated strand of regular quality and weight;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which transform sliver
     into roving;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which spin thread and yarn
     from roving, wind two or more threads onto bobbin, twist two
     or more strands of yarn or thread into single heavier and
     stronger strand, or wind yarn or thread from one package to
     another;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fibre preparing
  Machine-operator, spinning/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, twisting/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, winding/thread and yarn
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Spinner - 7432

8231  RUBBER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Rubber-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  knead and blend rubber and rubber compounds, and
produce various components  and products, from natural and
synthetic rubber, such as moulded footwear,  domestic articles,
insulating materials, industrial accessories, or tyres for 
bicycles, automobiles, tractors, aircraft and other vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which knead, mix and blend
     rubber and rubber compounds for further processing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which produce sheets of
     rubber or rubberised fabric by a rolling process ;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude compounded
     rubber or shape vulcanised rubber by moulding

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which build up tires on
     a form, vulcanise tires and mould or rebuild used tires;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, extruding/rubber
  Machine-operator, milling/rubber
  Machine-operator, tyre production

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8112  MINERAL-ORE- AND STONE-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mineral-ore- and stone-processing-plant operators operate
and monitor  machinery and equipment for processing mineral ore
and stone.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which crushes and breaks
     lumps of minerals and stones to required size;

(b)  operating and monitoring washing, separating, leaching,
     precipitating, filtering, extracting and combining equipment
     to wash mineral ores in order to remove waste material;

(c)  combining mineral ores with solvents to facilitate further
     processing;

(d)  separating metal or mineral concentrates from ore or
     alluvial deposits by thickening, flotation, gravity
     separation, filtration, or magnetic or electrostatic
     separation;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Floatation worker, minerals
  Machine-operator, crushing/mineral ore
  Machine-operator, milling/minerals
  Machine-operator, stone processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cutter, stone - 7113
  Splitter, stone - 7113

8141  WOOD-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Wood-processing-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment for sawing wood, cutting veneer and
making plywood, and otherwise  prepare wood for further use.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring log in-feed and conveyor systems;

(b)  operating and monitoring head saws, resaws and multiblade
     saws to saw logs, cants, flitches, slabs or wings and remove
     rough edges from sawn timber;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut veneer;

(d)  operating and monitoring plywood core-laying machines and
     hot-plate plywood presses;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, band-saw
  Operator, sawmill
  Operator, wood-processing plant
  Press-operator, plywood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Wood seasoner - 7421
  Wood treater - 7421

8290  OTHER MACHINE OPERATORS AND ASSEMBLERS
 

     Other machine operators and assemblers operate and monitor
machines which  pack, label and, if needed, add revenue stamps
to products, packages and  containers, or assemble, according to
strictly laid down procedures, products  whose component parts
are made of a wide range of materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which wrap and pack
     various products, including liquid ones, for storage or
     shipment;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which, by gluing or other
     methods, label products, packages and various containers,
     or add revenue stamps;

(c)  assembling, according to strictly laid down procedures,
     products whose component parts are made of a very wide range
     of materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, composite products
  Machine-operator, labelling
  Machine-operator, packing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Packer, hand - 9322

8141  WOOD-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Wood-processing-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment for sawing wood, cutting veneer and
making plywood, and otherwise  prepare wood for further use.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring log in-feed and conveyor systems;

(b)  operating and monitoring head saws, resaws and multiblade
     saws to saw logs, cants, flitches, slabs or wings and remove
     rough edges from sawn timber;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut veneer;

(d)  operating and monitoring plywood core-laying machines and
     hot-plate plywood presses;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, band-saw
  Operator, sawmill
  Operator, wood-processing plant
  Press-operator, plywood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Wood seasoner - 7421
  Wood treater - 7421

8263  SEWING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Sewing-machine operators operate and monitor sewing machines
to make  textile, fur or leather garments or embroider ornamental
designs on garments  or other materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring standard or specialised single- or 
     multiple-needle sewing machines to make or repair garments,
     gloves and miscellaneous pro ducts in textiles, fur or
     leather;

(b)  operating and monitoring standard or specialised single- or 
     multiple-needle sewing machines to embroider ornamental
     designs on textiles or other materials

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, sewing/embroidery
  Machine-operator, sewing/textile products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Embroiderer - 7436
  Furrier - 7434
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Tailor - 7433

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8141  WOOD-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Wood-processing-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment for sawing wood, cutting veneer and
making plywood, and otherwise  prepare wood for further use.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring log in-feed and conveyor systems;

(b)  operating and monitoring head saws, resaws and multiblade
     saws to saw logs, cants, flitches, slabs or wings and remove
     rough edges from sawn timber;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut veneer;

(d)  operating and monitoring plywood core-laying machines and
     hot-plate plywood presses;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, band-saw
  Operator, sawmill
  Operator, wood-processing plant
  Press-operator, plywood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Wood seasoner - 7421
  Wood treater - 7421

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8141  WOOD-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Wood-processing-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment for sawing wood, cutting veneer and
making plywood, and otherwise  prepare wood for further use.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring log in-feed and conveyor systems;

(b)  operating and monitoring head saws, resaws and multiblade
     saws to saw logs, cants, flitches, slabs or wings and remove
     rough edges from sawn timber;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut veneer;

(d)  operating and monitoring plywood core-laying machines and
     hot-plate plywood presses;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, band-saw
  Operator, sawmill
  Operator, wood-processing plant
  Press-operator, plywood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Wood seasoner - 7421
  Wood treater - 7421

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8266  SHOEMAKING- AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Shoemaking- and related machine operators operate and
monitor machines  which produce and repair standard or special
footwear, handbags and other  accessories, mainly made of leather

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which mark patterns and
     cut shoe parts ;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which sew shoe parts
     together, or edge, polish, or apply ornaments and perform
     finishing tasks;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which produce luggage,
     handbags, belts and other accessories, as well as other
     items such as saddles, collars or harnesses;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, footwear production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cobbler - 7442
  Handicraft worker, leather - 7332

8223  METAL FINISHING-, PLATING AND COATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Metal finishing-, plating- and coating-machine operators
operate and  monitor equipment which finishes, plates and coats
metal articles or parts, in  order to give them improved
resistance to corrosion and abrasion, for  decorative purposes,
or to impart electrical or magnetic properties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which cleans metal
     articles in preparation for electroplating, galvanising,
     enamelling or similar processes;

(b)  operating and monitoring electroplating equipment;

(c)  operating and monitoring hot-dip equipment used to coat iron
     and steel products

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which automatically coat
     wire with non ferrous metal

(e)  operating and monitoring equipment used to spray molten
     metal or other substances on metal products to provide a
     protective or decorative coating or to build up worn or
     damaged surfaces;

(f)  operating and monitoring equipment used to impart a rust-
     resistant finish to metal articles by treating them with
     chemicals and heating them;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, coating/metal
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal
  Machine-operator, plating/metal

8264  BLEACHING-, DYEING- AND CLEANING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 


     Bleaching-, dyeing- and cleaning-machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which bleach, dye, wash and otherwise treat
fibres, yarn, or cloth or dry clean textile, fur and leather
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which treat textile
     products to make them lighter in colour or to give them a
     specific colour;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which wash or dry-clean
     textile, fur or leather products to remove dirt, impurities,
     excess chemicals or natural gum;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which shrink cloth or
     strengthen the weave by interlocking the fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which impregnate textiles
     with chemicals to render them waterproof;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which treat silk to give
     it body and weight;

(f)  operating and monitoring machines which press, stretch, or
     impart lustre, or other type of finish to textiles;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dry-cleaning
  Machine-operator, dyeing/textile fibres
  Machine-operator, laundering
  Machine-operator, pressing/laundry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Launderer, hand - 91 33
  Presser, hand - 91 33

8290  OTHER MACHINE OPERATORS AND ASSEMBLERS
 

     Other machine operators and assemblers operate and monitor
machines which  pack, label and, if needed, add revenue stamps
to products, packages and  containers, or assemble, according to
strictly laid down procedures, products  whose component parts
are made of a wide range of materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which wrap and pack
     various products, including liquid ones, for storage or
     shipment;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which, by gluing or other
     methods, label products, packages and various containers,
     or add revenue stamps;

(c)  assembling, according to strictly laid down procedures,
     products whose component parts are made of a very wide range
     of materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, composite products
  Machine-operator, labelling
  Machine-operator, packing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Packer, hand - 9322

8264  BLEACHING-, DYEING- AND CLEANING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 


     Bleaching-, dyeing- and cleaning-machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which bleach, dye, wash and otherwise treat
fibres, yarn, or cloth or dry clean textile, fur and leather
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which treat textile
     products to make them lighter in colour or to give them a
     specific colour;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which wash or dry-clean
     textile, fur or leather products to remove dirt, impurities,
     excess chemicals or natural gum;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which shrink cloth or
     strengthen the weave by interlocking the fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which impregnate textiles
     with chemicals to render them waterproof;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which treat silk to give
     it body and weight;

(f)  operating and monitoring machines which press, stretch, or
     impart lustre, or other type of finish to textiles;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dry-cleaning
  Machine-operator, dyeing/textile fibres
  Machine-operator, laundering
  Machine-operator, pressing/laundry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Launderer, hand - 91 33
  Presser, hand - 91 33

8261  FIBRE-PREPARING, SPINNING- AND WINDING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fibre-preparing, spinning- and winding-machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which prepare fibres, and spin,
double, twist and wind  yarn and thread.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which combine textile
     fibres into uniform blends;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which clean and fluff
     textile fibres, transform them into sliver, comb them into
     sliver for first drawing, combine slivers into sliver lap
     or sliver laps into ribbon lap, combine several slivers into
     one attenuated strand of regular quality and weight;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which transform sliver
     into roving;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which spin thread and yarn
     from roving, wind two or more threads onto bobbin, twist two
     or more strands of yarn or thread into single heavier and
     stronger strand, or wind yarn or thread from one package to
     another;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fibre preparing
  Machine-operator, spinning/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, twisting/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, winding/thread and yarn
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Spinner - 7432

8278  BREWERS, WINE AND OTHER BEVERAGE  MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Brewers, wine and other beverage machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which mix, press, or malt and ferment
grains and fruit to make malt  liquors, wine and other alcoholic
or non-alcoholic beverages, except fruit and  vegetable juices.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which process barley and
     other grains used in making distilled and malt liquors, and
     controlling the fermentation process,

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which process grapes and
     other fruit used in making wines, and controlling the
     fermentation process;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which increase or reduce the
     alcohol content of alcoholic beverages;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend wines and
     liquors to obtain desired tastes and flavours;
(e)  operating and monitoring machines which make non-alcoholic
     beverages, except fruit and vegetable juices;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Brewer
  Machine-operator, malting/spirits
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, fruit juice production - 8275
  Taster, wine - 7415

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8261  FIBRE-PREPARING, SPINNING- AND WINDING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fibre-preparing, spinning- and winding-machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which prepare fibres, and spin,
double, twist and wind  yarn and thread.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which combine textile
     fibres into uniform blends;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which clean and fluff
     textile fibres, transform them into sliver, comb them into
     sliver for first drawing, combine slivers into sliver lap
     or sliver laps into ribbon lap, combine several slivers into
     one attenuated strand of regular quality and weight;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which transform sliver
     into roving;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which spin thread and yarn
     from roving, wind two or more threads onto bobbin, twist two
     or more strands of yarn or thread into single heavier and
     stronger strand, or wind yarn or thread from one package to
     another;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fibre preparing
  Machine-operator, spinning/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, twisting/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, winding/thread and yarn
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Spinner - 7432

8290  OTHER MACHINE OPERATORS AND ASSEMBLERS
 

     Other machine operators and assemblers operate and monitor
machines which  pack, label and, if needed, add revenue stamps
to products, packages and  containers, or assemble, according to
strictly laid down procedures, products  whose component parts
are made of a wide range of materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which wrap and pack
     various products, including liquid ones, for storage or
     shipment;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which, by gluing or other
     methods, label products, packages and various containers,
     or add revenue stamps;

(c)  assembling, according to strictly laid down procedures,
     products whose component parts are made of a very wide range
     of materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, composite products
  Machine-operator, labelling
  Machine-operator, packing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Packer, hand - 9322

8112  MINERAL-ORE- AND STONE-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mineral-ore- and stone-processing-plant operators operate
and monitor  machinery and equipment for processing mineral ore
and stone.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which crushes and breaks
     lumps of minerals and stones to required size;

(b)  operating and monitoring washing, separating, leaching,
     precipitating, filtering, extracting and combining equipment
     to wash mineral ores in order to remove waste material;

(c)  combining mineral ores with solvents to facilitate further
     processing;

(d)  separating metal or mineral concentrates from ore or
     alluvial deposits by thickening, flotation, gravity
     separation, filtration, or magnetic or electrostatic
     separation;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Floatation worker, minerals
  Machine-operator, crushing/mineral ore
  Machine-operator, milling/minerals
  Machine-operator, stone processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cutter, stone - 7113
  Splitter, stone - 7113

8261  FIBRE-PREPARING, SPINNING- AND WINDING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fibre-preparing, spinning- and winding-machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which prepare fibres, and spin,
double, twist and wind  yarn and thread.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which combine textile
     fibres into uniform blends;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which clean and fluff
     textile fibres, transform them into sliver, comb them into
     sliver for first drawing, combine slivers into sliver lap
     or sliver laps into ribbon lap, combine several slivers into
     one attenuated strand of regular quality and weight;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which transform sliver
     into roving;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which spin thread and yarn
     from roving, wind two or more threads onto bobbin, twist two
     or more strands of yarn or thread into single heavier and
     stronger strand, or wind yarn or thread from one package to
     another;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fibre preparing
  Machine-operator, spinning/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, twisting/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, winding/thread and yarn
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Spinner - 7432

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8240  WOOD-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Wood-products machine operators operate and monitor
automatic or  semi-automatic woodworking machines which perform
repetitive work and are  always set up by woodworking-machine
setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more previously set up
     machines for sawing, shaping, boring, planing, turning or
     carving wood;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, carving/wood
  Machine-operator, furniture production
  Machine-operator, wood products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, woodworking machine - 7423
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine - 7423

8223  METAL FINISHING-, PLATING AND COATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Metal finishing-, plating- and coating-machine operators
operate and  monitor equipment which finishes, plates and coats
metal articles or parts, in  order to give them improved
resistance to corrosion and abrasion, for  decorative purposes,
or to impart electrical or magnetic properties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which cleans metal
     articles in preparation for electroplating, galvanising,
     enamelling or similar processes;

(b)  operating and monitoring electroplating equipment;

(c)  operating and monitoring hot-dip equipment used to coat iron
     and steel products

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which automatically coat
     wire with non ferrous metal

(e)  operating and monitoring equipment used to spray molten
     metal or other substances on metal products to provide a
     protective or decorative coating or to build up worn or
     damaged surfaces;

(f)  operating and monitoring equipment used to impart a rust-
     resistant finish to metal articles by treating them with
     chemicals and heating them;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, coating/metal
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal
  Machine-operator, plating/metal

8265  FUR- AND LEATHER-PREPARING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fur- and leather-preparing-machine operators operate and
monitor various  machines which prepare leather or treat fur- or
wool-bearing pelts.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which remove flesh and fat
     from pelts before curing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which remove long coarse
     hair from fur pelts, trim hair to even length, and dye,
     stretch and smooth dressed pelts;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which separate residual
     wool from skins, or flesh and hair from hides, and which
     split hides;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which treat hides and
     skins in solutions and apply finishing product to convert
     them into leather;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which apply dyes and
     stains to leather;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dehairing/hide
  Machine-operator, staining/leather
  Machine-operator, tanning
Some related occupations classified elsewhere;
  Dyer, pelt - 7441
  Tanner - 7441

8271  MEAT- AND FISH-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Meat- and fish-processing-machine operators operate and
monitor machines  used to slaughter animals, trim carcasses,
prepare standard meat or fish cuts,  and manufacture meat and
fish products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to slaughter animals
     and to cut carcasses or fish into standard pieces;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines used to mince and mix meat
     or fish;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines used to process meat and
     fish and manufacture various meat and fish products, such
as
     sausages, smoked meat or smoked fish;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines used to produce canned or
     frozen meat and fish dishes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fish processing
  Machine-operator, meat processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Butcher - 7411
  Fishmonger - 7411

8275  FRUIT-, VEGETABLE- AND NUT-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fruit-, vegetable- and nut-processing machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which extract juice from fruit and
vegetables or oil from  oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit, and
which process fruit, vegetables and  nuts by drying, cooking,
canning or freezing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which extract juice from
     fruit and vegetables by heating or pressing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     oil from oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make margarine and
     similar products from animal and vegetable oils;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare fruit,
     vegetables and nuts for further processing ;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which dry, cook, can,
     freeze or otherwise process fruit, vegetables and nuts

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fruit processing
  Machine-operator, vegetable processing
  Press-operator, edible oils
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Expeller, oil - 7414
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production - 8278
  Preserver, fruit - 7414
  Preserver, vegetable - 7414

8271  MEAT- AND FISH-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Meat- and fish-processing-machine operators operate and
monitor machines  used to slaughter animals, trim carcasses,
prepare standard meat or fish cuts,  and manufacture meat and
fish products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to slaughter animals
     and to cut carcasses or fish into standard pieces;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines used to mince and mix meat
     or fish;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines used to process meat and
     fish and manufacture various meat and fish products, such
as
     sausages, smoked meat or smoked fish;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines used to produce canned or
     frozen meat and fish dishes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fish processing
  Machine-operator, meat processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Butcher - 7411
  Fishmonger - 7411

8275  FRUIT-, VEGETABLE- AND NUT-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fruit-, vegetable- and nut-processing machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which extract juice from fruit and
vegetables or oil from  oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit, and
which process fruit, vegetables and  nuts by drying, cooking,
canning or freezing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which extract juice from
     fruit and vegetables by heating or pressing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     oil from oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make margarine and
     similar products from animal and vegetable oils;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare fruit,
     vegetables and nuts for further processing ;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which dry, cook, can,
     freeze or otherwise process fruit, vegetables and nuts

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fruit processing
  Machine-operator, vegetable processing
  Press-operator, edible oils
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Expeller, oil - 7414
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production - 8278
  Preserver, fruit - 7414
  Preserver, vegetable - 7414

8112  MINERAL-ORE- AND STONE-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mineral-ore- and stone-processing-plant operators operate
and monitor  machinery and equipment for processing mineral ore
and stone.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which crushes and breaks
     lumps of minerals and stones to required size;

(b)  operating and monitoring washing, separating, leaching,
     precipitating, filtering, extracting and combining equipment
     to wash mineral ores in order to remove waste material;

(c)  combining mineral ores with solvents to facilitate further
     processing;

(d)  separating metal or mineral concentrates from ore or
     alluvial deposits by thickening, flotation, gravity
     separation, filtration, or magnetic or electrostatic
     separation;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Floatation worker, minerals
  Machine-operator, crushing/mineral ore
  Machine-operator, milling/minerals
  Machine-operator, stone processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cutter, stone - 7113
  Splitter, stone - 7113

8212  CEMENT AND OTHER MINERAL PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Cement and other mineral products machine operators operate
and monitor  extrusion, moulding, mixing, grinding and cutting
machines which manufacture  and finish various precast concrete
and stone products, or which make cast  stone for building
purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring extrusion, moulding, grinding and
     cutting machines which manufacture and finish various
     precast concrete and stone products, such as flagstones,
     fencing posts, moulded pipe sections and trench liners,
     walling and partition slabs, building components, cable
     conduits, fume and dust extraction conduits;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which mix sand, gravel,
     cement and water to make concrete ;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cast-concrete products
  Machine-operator, cast-stone products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln-operator, cement production 8152
  Machine-operator, stone processing 8112

8279  TOBACCO PRODUCTION MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Tobacco production machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  process tobacco and make cigarettes and other
tobacco products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which process tobacco in
     preparation for manufacturing cigarettes and other tobacco
     products;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which produce cigarettes
     and other tobacco products;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cigar production
  Machine-operator, cigarette production
  Machine-operator, tobacco processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Grader, tobacco - 741 6
  Maker, cigar - 741 6

8276  SUGAR PRODUCTION MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Sugar production machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  process sugar-cane and sugar-beet and produce
refined sugar

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which crush sugar-cane or
     extract liquor from sugar-beet;

(b)  operating and monitoring tanks used to purify sugar liquor
     or produce sugar crystals from hot sugar liquor;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which refine sugar-beet
     or sugar-cane by a continuous process;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     sugar juices from maple, palm and other vegetable sources'.

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which process honey;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, sugar production

8159  CHEMICAL-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-processing-plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 815, Chemical-processing
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment
which treat chemical  solutions with bleaching reagents, produce
coke or gas from coal, extrude and  form natural or synthetic
polymers into synthetic fibres, produce fertilisers,  or extract
and process radioactive materials.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which treats chemical
     solutions with bleaching reagents;

(b)  operating and monitoring plant which produces coke or gas
     from coal;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which extrudes or forms
     natural or synthetic polymers into synthetic fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring fertiliser plant equipment;

(e)  operating and monitoring plant which separates and extracts
     radioactive materials from their ores or processes such
     materials;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, coke production plant
  Operator, fertiliser plant
  Operator, synthetic-fibre production plant

8265  FUR- AND LEATHER-PREPARING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fur- and leather-preparing-machine operators operate and
monitor various  machines which prepare leather or treat fur- or
wool-bearing pelts.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which remove flesh and fat
     from pelts before curing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which remove long coarse
     hair from fur pelts, trim hair to even length, and dye,
     stretch and smooth dressed pelts;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which separate residual
     wool from skins, or flesh and hair from hides, and which
     split hides;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which treat hides and
     skins in solutions and apply finishing product to convert
     them into leather;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which apply dyes and
     stains to leather;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dehairing/hide
  Machine-operator, staining/leather
  Machine-operator, tanning
Some related occupations classified elsewhere;
  Dyer, pelt - 7441
  Tanner - 7441

8277  TEA-, COFFEE- AND COCOA-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Tea-, coffee- and cocoa-processing machine operators operate
and monitor  machines to blend and prepare tea leaves, coffee or
cocoa beans and chicory  roots.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to dry tea leaves,
     roll withered leaves or dry rolled leaves, and blend various
     grades of tea;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines used to cut coffee or
     cocoa berries and remove and wash off pulp, peel off husk
     from beans, and cure and blend beans;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which roast blended coffee
     or cocoa beans or chicory roots;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which crush tea or grind
     coffee, cocoa or chicory; 

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cocoa-bean processing
  Machine-operator, coffee-bean processing
  Machine-operator, tea-leaf processing

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8123  METAL-HEAT-TREATING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Metal-heat-treating-plant operators operate and monitor
plant altering  the physical properties of metal objects by
heating, cooling and chemical  treatment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring furnaces which heat and cool metal
     objects to relieve internal stresses, restore ductility and
     refine grain structure;

(b)  operating and monitoring furnaces which harden steel
     objects;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which imparts a hard skin and
     tough, ductile core to steel objects by treating them with
     chemicals, heating and quenching or cooling them;

(d)  operating and monitoring furnaces which reheat hardened
     steel objects to relieve stresses and to impart toughness;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Annealer
  Furnace-operator, hardening/metal
  Furnace-operator, heat-treating/metal

8141  WOOD-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Wood-processing-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment for sawing wood, cutting veneer and
making plywood, and otherwise  prepare wood for further use.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring log in-feed and conveyor systems;

(b)  operating and monitoring head saws, resaws and multiblade
     saws to saw logs, cants, flitches, slabs or wings and remove
     rough edges from sawn timber;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut veneer;

(d)  operating and monitoring plywood core-laying machines and
     hot-plate plywood presses;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, band-saw
  Operator, sawmill
  Operator, wood-processing plant
  Press-operator, plywood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Wood seasoner - 7421
  Wood treater - 7421

8261  FIBRE-PREPARING, SPINNING- AND WINDING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fibre-preparing, spinning- and winding-machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which prepare fibres, and spin,
double, twist and wind  yarn and thread.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which combine textile
     fibres into uniform blends;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which clean and fluff
     textile fibres, transform them into sliver, comb them into
     sliver for first drawing, combine slivers into sliver lap
     or sliver laps into ribbon lap, combine several slivers into
     one attenuated strand of regular quality and weight;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which transform sliver
     into roving;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which spin thread and yarn
     from roving, wind two or more threads onto bobbin, twist two
     or more strands of yarn or thread into single heavier and
     stronger strand, or wind yarn or thread from one package to
     another;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fibre preparing
  Machine-operator, spinning/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, twisting/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, winding/thread and yarn
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Spinner - 7432

8262  WEAVING- AND KNITTING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Weaving- and knitting-machine operators operate and monitor
weaving and  knitting machines and related equipment used to
produce materials and fabrics.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to weave or knit
     plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpets, garments,
     hosiery or other fabrics or articles;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, knitting
  Machine-operator, net production
  Machine-operator, weaving
  Machine-operator, weaving/carpets
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Knitter - 7432
  Weaver, carpet - 7432 Weaver, cloth - 7432

8279  TOBACCO PRODUCTION MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Tobacco production machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  process tobacco and make cigarettes and other
tobacco products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which process tobacco in
     preparation for manufacturing cigarettes and other tobacco
     products;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which produce cigarettes
     and other tobacco products;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cigar production
  Machine-operator, cigarette production
  Machine-operator, tobacco processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Grader, tobacco - 741 6
  Maker, cigar - 741 6

8221  PHARMACEUTICAL- AND TOILETRY-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Pharmaceutical- and toiletry-products machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which process a variety of
chemicals and other ingredients  used in the production of
pharmaceuticals and toiletries.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines for moulding, filtering,
     fermenting, heating, mixing, grinding, filling and sealing
     materials used in the production of pharmaceuticals,
     toiletries, detergents and related products;

(b)  operating controls to regulate temperature, pressure, flow
     and speed of operation ;

(c)  cleaning and disinfecting equipment;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, detergent production
  Machine-operator, pharmaceutical products
  Machine-operator, toiletries production

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8240  WOOD-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Wood-products machine operators operate and monitor
automatic or  semi-automatic woodworking machines which perform
repetitive work and are  always set up by woodworking-machine
setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more previously set up
     machines for sawing, shaping, boring, planing, turning or
     carving wood;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, carving/wood
  Machine-operator, furniture production
  Machine-operator, wood products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, woodworking machine - 7423
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine - 7423

8141  WOOD-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Wood-processing-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment for sawing wood, cutting veneer and
making plywood, and otherwise  prepare wood for further use.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring log in-feed and conveyor systems;

(b)  operating and monitoring head saws, resaws and multiblade
     saws to saw logs, cants, flitches, slabs or wings and remove
     rough edges from sawn timber;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut veneer;

(d)  operating and monitoring plywood core-laying machines and
     hot-plate plywood presses;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, band-saw
  Operator, sawmill
  Operator, wood-processing plant
  Press-operator, plywood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Wood seasoner - 7421
  Wood treater - 7421

8261  FIBRE-PREPARING, SPINNING- AND WINDING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fibre-preparing, spinning- and winding-machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which prepare fibres, and spin,
double, twist and wind  yarn and thread.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which combine textile
     fibres into uniform blends;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which clean and fluff
     textile fibres, transform them into sliver, comb them into
     sliver for first drawing, combine slivers into sliver lap
     or sliver laps into ribbon lap, combine several slivers into
     one attenuated strand of regular quality and weight;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which transform sliver
     into roving;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which spin thread and yarn
     from roving, wind two or more threads onto bobbin, twist two
     or more strands of yarn or thread into single heavier and
     stronger strand, or wind yarn or thread from one package to
     another;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fibre preparing
  Machine-operator, spinning/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, twisting/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, winding/thread and yarn
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Spinner - 7432

8231  RUBBER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Rubber-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  knead and blend rubber and rubber compounds, and
produce various components  and products, from natural and
synthetic rubber, such as moulded footwear,  domestic articles,
insulating materials, industrial accessories, or tyres for 
bicycles, automobiles, tractors, aircraft and other vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which knead, mix and blend
     rubber and rubber compounds for further processing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which produce sheets of
     rubber or rubberised fabric by a rolling process ;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude compounded
     rubber or shape vulcanised rubber by moulding

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which build up tires on
     a form, vulcanise tires and mould or rebuild used tires;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, extruding/rubber
  Machine-operator, milling/rubber
  Machine-operator, tyre production

8275  FRUIT-, VEGETABLE- AND NUT-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fruit-, vegetable- and nut-processing machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which extract juice from fruit and
vegetables or oil from  oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit, and
which process fruit, vegetables and  nuts by drying, cooking,
canning or freezing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which extract juice from
     fruit and vegetables by heating or pressing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     oil from oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make margarine and
     similar products from animal and vegetable oils;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare fruit,
     vegetables and nuts for further processing ;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which dry, cook, can,
     freeze or otherwise process fruit, vegetables and nuts

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fruit processing
  Machine-operator, vegetable processing
  Press-operator, edible oils
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Expeller, oil - 7414
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production - 8278
  Preserver, fruit - 7414
  Preserver, vegetable - 7414

8281  MECHANICAL-MACHINERY ASSEMBLERS
 

     Mechanical-machinery assemblers assemble the components or
parts of  mechanical machinery, according to strictly laid down
procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts of mechanical machinery,
     engines and vehicles, according to strictly laid down
     procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, aircraft
  Assembler, mechanical machinery
  Assembler, vehicle
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Operator, assembly-line/automated 8171

8278  BREWERS, WINE AND OTHER BEVERAGE  MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Brewers, wine and other beverage machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which mix, press, or malt and ferment
grains and fruit to make malt  liquors, wine and other alcoholic
or non-alcoholic beverages, except fruit and  vegetable juices.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which process barley and
     other grains used in making distilled and malt liquors, and
     controlling the fermentation process,

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which process grapes and
     other fruit used in making wines, and controlling the
     fermentation process;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which increase or reduce the
     alcohol content of alcoholic beverages;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend wines and
     liquors to obtain desired tastes and flavours;
(e)  operating and monitoring machines which make non-alcoholic
     beverages, except fruit and vegetable juices;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Brewer
  Machine-operator, malting/spirits
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, fruit juice production - 8275
  Taster, wine - 7415

8231  RUBBER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Rubber-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  knead and blend rubber and rubber compounds, and
produce various components  and products, from natural and
synthetic rubber, such as moulded footwear,  domestic articles,
insulating materials, industrial accessories, or tyres for 
bicycles, automobiles, tractors, aircraft and other vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which knead, mix and blend
     rubber and rubber compounds for further processing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which produce sheets of
     rubber or rubberised fabric by a rolling process ;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude compounded
     rubber or shape vulcanised rubber by moulding

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which build up tires on
     a form, vulcanise tires and mould or rebuild used tires;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, extruding/rubber
  Machine-operator, milling/rubber
  Machine-operator, tyre production

8262  WEAVING- AND KNITTING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Weaving- and knitting-machine operators operate and monitor
weaving and  knitting machines and related equipment used to
produce materials and fabrics.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to weave or knit
     plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpets, garments,
     hosiery or other fabrics or articles;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, knitting
  Machine-operator, net production
  Machine-operator, weaving
  Machine-operator, weaving/carpets
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Knitter - 7432
  Weaver, carpet - 7432 Weaver, cloth - 7432

8278  BREWERS, WINE AND OTHER BEVERAGE  MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Brewers, wine and other beverage machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which mix, press, or malt and ferment
grains and fruit to make malt  liquors, wine and other alcoholic
or non-alcoholic beverages, except fruit and  vegetable juices.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which process barley and
     other grains used in making distilled and malt liquors, and
     controlling the fermentation process,

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which process grapes and
     other fruit used in making wines, and controlling the
     fermentation process;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which increase or reduce the
     alcohol content of alcoholic beverages;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend wines and
     liquors to obtain desired tastes and flavours;
(e)  operating and monitoring machines which make non-alcoholic
     beverages, except fruit and vegetable juices;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Brewer
  Machine-operator, malting/spirits
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, fruit juice production - 8275
  Taster, wine - 7415

8271  MEAT- AND FISH-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Meat- and fish-processing-machine operators operate and
monitor machines  used to slaughter animals, trim carcasses,
prepare standard meat or fish cuts,  and manufacture meat and
fish products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to slaughter animals
     and to cut carcasses or fish into standard pieces;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines used to mince and mix meat
     or fish;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines used to process meat and
     fish and manufacture various meat and fish products, such
as
     sausages, smoked meat or smoked fish;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines used to produce canned or
     frozen meat and fish dishes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fish processing
  Machine-operator, meat processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Butcher - 7411
  Fishmonger - 7411

8229  CHEMICAL-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-products machine operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 822.  Chemical-products
machine operators.

     For instance here should be classified those who operate and
monitor  machines which produce chemical-based products such as
linoleum, candles,  halogen gases and related items.

     In such cases tasks would include:
(a)  operating and monitoring machines which make linoleum,
     candles, halogen gases and related chemical products;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, candle production
  Machine-operator, halogen gas production
  Machine-operator, linoleum production

8264  BLEACHING-, DYEING- AND CLEANING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 


     Bleaching-, dyeing- and cleaning-machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which bleach, dye, wash and otherwise treat
fibres, yarn, or cloth or dry clean textile, fur and leather
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which treat textile
     products to make them lighter in colour or to give them a
     specific colour;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which wash or dry-clean
     textile, fur or leather products to remove dirt, impurities,
     excess chemicals or natural gum;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which shrink cloth or
     strengthen the weave by interlocking the fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which impregnate textiles
     with chemicals to render them waterproof;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which treat silk to give
     it body and weight;

(f)  operating and monitoring machines which press, stretch, or
     impart lustre, or other type of finish to textiles;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dry-cleaning
  Machine-operator, dyeing/textile fibres
  Machine-operator, laundering
  Machine-operator, pressing/laundry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Launderer, hand - 91 33
  Presser, hand - 91 33

8275  FRUIT-, VEGETABLE- AND NUT-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fruit-, vegetable- and nut-processing machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which extract juice from fruit and
vegetables or oil from  oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit, and
which process fruit, vegetables and  nuts by drying, cooking,
canning or freezing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which extract juice from
     fruit and vegetables by heating or pressing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     oil from oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make margarine and
     similar products from animal and vegetable oils;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare fruit,
     vegetables and nuts for further processing ;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which dry, cook, can,
     freeze or otherwise process fruit, vegetables and nuts

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fruit processing
  Machine-operator, vegetable processing
  Press-operator, edible oils
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Expeller, oil - 7414
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production - 8278
  Preserver, fruit - 7414
  Preserver, vegetable - 7414

8265  FUR- AND LEATHER-PREPARING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fur- and leather-preparing-machine operators operate and
monitor various  machines which prepare leather or treat fur- or
wool-bearing pelts.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which remove flesh and fat
     from pelts before curing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which remove long coarse
     hair from fur pelts, trim hair to even length, and dye,
     stretch and smooth dressed pelts;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which separate residual
     wool from skins, or flesh and hair from hides, and which
     split hides;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which treat hides and
     skins in solutions and apply finishing product to convert
     them into leather;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which apply dyes and
     stains to leather;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dehairing/hide
  Machine-operator, staining/leather
  Machine-operator, tanning
Some related occupations classified elsewhere;
  Dyer, pelt - 7441
  Tanner - 7441

8264  BLEACHING-, DYEING- AND CLEANING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 


     Bleaching-, dyeing- and cleaning-machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which bleach, dye, wash and otherwise treat
fibres, yarn, or cloth or dry clean textile, fur and leather
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which treat textile
     products to make them lighter in colour or to give them a
     specific colour;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which wash or dry-clean
     textile, fur or leather products to remove dirt, impurities,
     excess chemicals or natural gum;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which shrink cloth or
     strengthen the weave by interlocking the fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which impregnate textiles
     with chemicals to render them waterproof;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which treat silk to give
     it body and weight;

(f)  operating and monitoring machines which press, stretch, or
     impart lustre, or other type of finish to textiles;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dry-cleaning
  Machine-operator, dyeing/textile fibres
  Machine-operator, laundering
  Machine-operator, pressing/laundry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Launderer, hand - 91 33
  Presser, hand - 91 33

8112  MINERAL-ORE- AND STONE-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mineral-ore- and stone-processing-plant operators operate
and monitor  machinery and equipment for processing mineral ore
and stone.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which crushes and breaks
     lumps of minerals and stones to required size;

(b)  operating and monitoring washing, separating, leaching,
     precipitating, filtering, extracting and combining equipment
     to wash mineral ores in order to remove waste material;

(c)  combining mineral ores with solvents to facilitate further
     processing;

(d)  separating metal or mineral concentrates from ore or
     alluvial deposits by thickening, flotation, gravity
     separation, filtration, or magnetic or electrostatic
     separation;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Floatation worker, minerals
  Machine-operator, crushing/mineral ore
  Machine-operator, milling/minerals
  Machine-operator, stone processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cutter, stone - 7113
  Splitter, stone - 7113

8261  FIBRE-PREPARING, SPINNING- AND WINDING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fibre-preparing, spinning- and winding-machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which prepare fibres, and spin,
double, twist and wind  yarn and thread.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which combine textile
     fibres into uniform blends;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which clean and fluff
     textile fibres, transform them into sliver, comb them into
     sliver for first drawing, combine slivers into sliver lap
     or sliver laps into ribbon lap, combine several slivers into
     one attenuated strand of regular quality and weight;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which transform sliver
     into roving;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which spin thread and yarn
     from roving, wind two or more threads onto bobbin, twist two
     or more strands of yarn or thread into single heavier and
     stronger strand, or wind yarn or thread from one package to
     another;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fibre preparing
  Machine-operator, spinning/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, twisting/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, winding/thread and yarn
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Spinner - 7432

8275  FRUIT-, VEGETABLE- AND NUT-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fruit-, vegetable- and nut-processing machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which extract juice from fruit and
vegetables or oil from  oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit, and
which process fruit, vegetables and  nuts by drying, cooking,
canning or freezing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which extract juice from
     fruit and vegetables by heating or pressing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     oil from oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make margarine and
     similar products from animal and vegetable oils;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare fruit,
     vegetables and nuts for further processing ;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which dry, cook, can,
     freeze or otherwise process fruit, vegetables and nuts

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fruit processing
  Machine-operator, vegetable processing
  Press-operator, edible oils
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Expeller, oil - 7414
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production - 8278
  Preserver, fruit - 7414
  Preserver, vegetable - 7414

8264  BLEACHING-, DYEING- AND CLEANING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 


     Bleaching-, dyeing- and cleaning-machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which bleach, dye, wash and otherwise treat
fibres, yarn, or cloth or dry clean textile, fur and leather
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which treat textile
     products to make them lighter in colour or to give them a
     specific colour;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which wash or dry-clean
     textile, fur or leather products to remove dirt, impurities,
     excess chemicals or natural gum;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which shrink cloth or
     strengthen the weave by interlocking the fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which impregnate textiles
     with chemicals to render them waterproof;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which treat silk to give
     it body and weight;

(f)  operating and monitoring machines which press, stretch, or
     impart lustre, or other type of finish to textiles;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dry-cleaning
  Machine-operator, dyeing/textile fibres
  Machine-operator, laundering
  Machine-operator, pressing/laundry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Launderer, hand - 91 33
  Presser, hand - 91 33

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8264  BLEACHING-, DYEING- AND CLEANING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 


     Bleaching-, dyeing- and cleaning-machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which bleach, dye, wash and otherwise treat
fibres, yarn, or cloth or dry clean textile, fur and leather
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which treat textile
     products to make them lighter in colour or to give them a
     specific colour;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which wash or dry-clean
     textile, fur or leather products to remove dirt, impurities,
     excess chemicals or natural gum;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which shrink cloth or
     strengthen the weave by interlocking the fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which impregnate textiles
     with chemicals to render them waterproof;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which treat silk to give
     it body and weight;

(f)  operating and monitoring machines which press, stretch, or
     impart lustre, or other type of finish to textiles;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dry-cleaning
  Machine-operator, dyeing/textile fibres
  Machine-operator, laundering
  Machine-operator, pressing/laundry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Launderer, hand - 91 33
  Presser, hand - 91 33

8262  WEAVING- AND KNITTING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Weaving- and knitting-machine operators operate and monitor
weaving and  knitting machines and related equipment used to
produce materials and fabrics.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to weave or knit
     plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpets, garments,
     hosiery or other fabrics or articles;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, knitting
  Machine-operator, net production
  Machine-operator, weaving
  Machine-operator, weaving/carpets
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Knitter - 7432
  Weaver, carpet - 7432 Weaver, cloth - 7432

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8282  ELECTRICAL-EQUIPMENT ASSEMBLERS
 

     Electrical-equipment assemblers assemble the components or
parts of  electrical equipment, according to strictly laid down
procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts of electrical equipment,
     according to strictly laid down procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, electrical equipment

8283  ELECTRONIC-EQUIPMENT ASSEMBLERS
 

     Electronic-equipment assemblers assemble the components or
parts of  electronic equipment, according to strictly laid down
procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts of electronic equipment,
     according to strictly laid down procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, electronic equipment

8282  ELECTRICAL-EQUIPMENT ASSEMBLERS
 

     Electrical-equipment assemblers assemble the components or
parts of  electrical equipment, according to strictly laid down
procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts of electrical equipment,
     according to strictly laid down procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, electrical equipment

8261  FIBRE-PREPARING, SPINNING- AND WINDING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fibre-preparing, spinning- and winding-machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which prepare fibres, and spin,
double, twist and wind  yarn and thread.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which combine textile
     fibres into uniform blends;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which clean and fluff
     textile fibres, transform them into sliver, comb them into
     sliver for first drawing, combine slivers into sliver lap
     or sliver laps into ribbon lap, combine several slivers into
     one attenuated strand of regular quality and weight;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which transform sliver
     into roving;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which spin thread and yarn
     from roving, wind two or more threads onto bobbin, twist two
     or more strands of yarn or thread into single heavier and
     stronger strand, or wind yarn or thread from one package to
     another;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fibre preparing
  Machine-operator, spinning/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, twisting/thread and yarn
  Machine-operator, winding/thread and yarn
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Spinner - 7432

8282  ELECTRICAL-EQUIPMENT ASSEMBLERS
 

     Electrical-equipment assemblers assemble the components or
parts of  electrical equipment, according to strictly laid down
procedures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assembling the components or parts of electrical equipment,
     according to strictly laid down procedures;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, electrical equipment

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8141  WOOD-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Wood-processing-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment for sawing wood, cutting veneer and
making plywood, and otherwise  prepare wood for further use.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring log in-feed and conveyor systems;

(b)  operating and monitoring head saws, resaws and multiblade
     saws to saw logs, cants, flitches, slabs or wings and remove
     rough edges from sawn timber;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut veneer;

(d)  operating and monitoring plywood core-laying machines and
     hot-plate plywood presses;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, band-saw
  Operator, sawmill
  Operator, wood-processing plant
  Press-operator, plywood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Wood seasoner - 7421
  Wood treater - 7421

8240  WOOD-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Wood-products machine operators operate and monitor
automatic or  semi-automatic woodworking machines which perform
repetitive work and are  always set up by woodworking-machine
setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more previously set up
     machines for sawing, shaping, boring, planing, turning or
     carving wood;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, carving/wood
  Machine-operator, furniture production
  Machine-operator, wood products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, woodworking machine - 7423
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine - 7423

8290  OTHER MACHINE OPERATORS AND ASSEMBLERS
 

     Other machine operators and assemblers operate and monitor
machines which  pack, label and, if needed, add revenue stamps
to products, packages and  containers, or assemble, according to
strictly laid down procedures, products  whose component parts
are made of a wide range of materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which wrap and pack
     various products, including liquid ones, for storage or
     shipment;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which, by gluing or other
     methods, label products, packages and various containers,
     or add revenue stamps;

(c)  assembling, according to strictly laid down procedures,
     products whose component parts are made of a very wide range
     of materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, composite products
  Machine-operator, labelling
  Machine-operator, packing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Packer, hand - 9322

3474  CLOWNS, MAGICIANS, ACROBATS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS
 
     Clowns, magicians, acrobats and related associate
professionals entertain  audiences in circuses and other places
by performing a variety of acts.   
   
     Tasks include -

(a)   performing amusing antics and telling funny stories;

(b)   performing tricks of illusion and sleight of hand, and
      feats of hypnotism;

(c)   performing difficult and spectacular acrobatics, and
      gymnastic or juggling feats:

(d)   training and performing with animals;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Acrobat	
  Aerialist
  Clown
  Hypnotist
  Magician

2422  JUDGES 
      
     Judges hear and judge cases in courts of justice, instruct
the jury on  points of law, or pronounce judgement.

     Tasks include -

(a)   hearing and weighing arguments and evidence;

(b)   ruling on questions of procedure;

(c)   determining the rights and obligations of the parties
      involved, and, in cases tried by jury, instructing jury
      members on points of law;

(d)   pronouncing judgement;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Chief justice
  Judge
  Magistrate

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Clerk, court - 3432

9332  DRIVERS OF ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES AND MACHINERY

 

     Drivers of animal-drawn vehicles and machinery drive animal-
drawn  vehicles to transport passengers or goods, as well as
animal-drawn machinery  usually in connection with farming.

     Tasks include -

(a)  harnessing animals and hitching them to vehicles or
     machinery;

(b)  loading or unloading goods, or assisting passengers in
     getting on or off a vehicle;

(c)  driving animals in the desired direction with due regard to
     other traffic and traffic regulations;

(d)  collecting fares or charges;

(e)  driving animals to haul wagons in mines or quarries; 

(f)  driving animals hitched to farm or other machinery;

(g)  driving working elephants;

(h)  making minor repairs and keeping vehicles in good order;

(i)  performing related tasks;

(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, animal-drawn vehicle/road
  Driver, animal train
  Driver, elephant
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Driver, car - 8322
  Driver, locomotive - 8311

9132  HELPERS AND CLEANERS IN OFFICES, HOTELS AND OTHER ESTABLISHMENTS
 

     Helpers and cleaners in offices, hotels and other
establishments perform  various cleaning tasks in order to keep
clean and tidy the interiors and  fixtures of hotels, offices and
other establishments, as well as of aircraft,  trains, buses and
similar vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sweeping or vacuum-cleaning, washing and polishing floors,
     furniture and other fixtures in buildings, coaches, buses,
     trams, trains and aircraft;

(b)  making beds, cleaning bathrooms, supplying towels, soap and
     related items;

(c)  cleaning kitchens and generally helping with kitchen work,
     including dishwashing ;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cleaner,  aircraft
  Cleaner, hotel
  Cleaner, office
  Washer, hand/dishes
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Caretaker, building - 9141
  Cleaner, domestic - 9131
  Housekeeper - 5121
  Sweeper, street - 9162

5142  COMPANIONS AND VALETS
 
     Companions and valets provide companionship and attend to
various  personal needs of the employer.

     Tasks include -

(a)  providing companionship to employer by accompanying him/her
     to various places, reading, conversing and participating in
     activities such as sports;

(b)  assisting in entertaining visitors in employer's home;

(c)  keeping wardrobe and personal effects of the employer in
     good order;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Companion
  Valet
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Escort, social - 5149
  Partner, dancing - 5149

9133  HAND-LAUNDERERS AND PRESSERS
 

     Hand-launderers and pressers launder, press or dry-clean
linen and other  textiles by hand.

     Tasks include -

(a)  laundering and pressing linen, clothing, fabrics and similar
     articles by hand in a laundry or other establishment;

(b)  cleaning, by hand and with chemical solutions, clothing,
     fabrics, leather goods and similar articles, in a dry-
     cleaning or other establishment;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Dry-cleaner, hand
  Launderer, hand
  Presser, hand
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, dry-cleaning - 8264
  Machine-operator, pressing/laundry 8264
  Machine-operator, washing/laundry 8264

5142  COMPANIONS AND VALETS
 
     Companions and valets provide companionship and attend to
various  personal needs of the employer.

     Tasks include -

(a)  providing companionship to employer by accompanying him/her
     to various places, reading, conversing and participating in
     activities such as sports;

(b)  assisting in entertaining visitors in employer's home;

(c)  keeping wardrobe and personal effects of the employer in
     good order;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Companion
  Valet
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Escort, social - 5149
  Partner, dancing - 5149

4142  MAIL CARRIERS AND SORTING CLERKS
 
     Mail carriers and sorting clerks perform sorting, recording,
delivery and  other duties in connection with mail services from
post offices or related  organisations, as well as from or within
an establishment.
     Tasks include -

(a)  performing mail-handling duties in public post offices;
(b)  sorting and delivering mail to private houses and elsewhere;
(c)  sorting and keeping simple records of incoming and outgoing 
     correspondence and dispatching outgoing mail in various
     establishments;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, mail/dispatch
  Clerk, mail/sorting
  Post carrier
  Postman
  Postwoman

7129  BUILDING FRAME AND RELATED TRADES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers building frame and related trades
workers not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 712, Building
frame and related trades  workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who perform
miscellaneous  construction and building maintenance tasks.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  performing miscellaneous construction and building
     maintenance work on structures such as office buildings,
     apartment houses, factories and similar establishments in
     good repair;

(b)  performing construction, maintenance or repair work at
     unusual heights;

(c)  erecting temporary metal or wooden scaffolding on building
     sites;

(d)  demolishing buildings and other structures;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Demolition worker
  Housebuilder, non-traditional materials
  Scaffolder
  Steeplejack
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Labourer, construction/buildings 9313
  Labourer, demolition - 9313

5123  WAITERS, WAITRESSES AND BARTENDERS

 
     Waiters, waitresses and bartenders serve food and beverages
in  commercially-operated dining and drinking places, clubs,
institutions and  canteens, on board ships and on passenger
trains.

     Tasks include -

(a)  serving food and beverages;

(b)  advising on the choice of wines and serving them;

(c)  serving alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks at a bar;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Bartender
  Waiter
  Waiter, head
  Waitress
  Waitress, wine

5141  HAIRDRESSERS, BARBERS, BEAUTICIANS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Hairdressers, barbers, beauticians and related workers cut
and dress  hair, shave and trim beards, give beauty treatment,
apply cosmetics and  make-up and give other kinds of treatment
to individuals in order to improve their appearance.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting, washing, tinting and waving hair;

(b)  cutting and washing hair and shaving or trimming beards;

(c)  giving scalp treatment;

(d)  fitting wigs according to customers' requirements;

(e)  cleaning and applying creams, lotions and related products
     to face and parts of body;

(f)  giving facial and body massage;

(g)  applying make-up to clients of a beauty parlour;

(h)  applying make-up to actors and other performers;

(i)  cleaning, shaping and polishing finger and toe-nails and
     treating minor ailments of the human foot such as corns,
     calluses or deformed toe-nails;

(j)  attending to clients taking baths and administering
     elementary massage;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Attendant, bath
  Barber
  Beautician
  Chiropodist
  Hairdresser
  Manicurist

7312  MUSICAL-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND TUNERS
 

     Musical-instrument makers and tuners make, repair and tune
stringed, wind  or percussion instruments with hand or power
tools.

     Tasks include

(a)  making and repairing accordions, stringed and wind
     instruments;

(b)  building and repairing organs and making parts for such
     organs;

(c)  making instrumental parts of pianos and assembling and
     repairing such pianos;

(d)  tuning organs, pianos and other instruments;

(e)  making and repairing other musical instruments;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/musical (brass)
  Maker, instrument/musical (string)
  Maker, instrument/musical (woodwind)
  Tuner, musical instrument

7436  SEWERS, EMBROIDERERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Sewers, embroiderers and related workers sew together,
repair and  decorate garments, gloves and other products of
textile, fur, leather and  other materials by hand or by using
simple sewing machines, and perform  various related tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  performing various sewing tasks in making, altering and
     repairing articles of textile, leather and other materials;

(b)  embroidering decorative designs on garments or materials;

(c)  sewing sails, tents, awnings and similar articles;

(d)  assembling and covering umbrellas;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Embroiderer
  Maker, umbrella
  Sewer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Dressmaker - 7433
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, sewing - 8263

7311  PRECISION-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND REPAIRERS

 

     Precision-instrument makers and repairers make and repair
mechanical  watches, clocks, nautical, meteorological, optical,
surgical, dental,  orthopaedic and other precision instruments
and equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, adjusting and repairing mechanical watches and
     clocks;

(b)  making, adjusting and repairing nautical and meteorological
     instruments and equipment;

(c)  making, adjusting and repairing optical instruments;

(d)  making, adjusting and repairing surgical instruments and
     other medical equipment;

(e)  making and repairing medical, orthopaedic and dental
     appliances and prostheses;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/meteorological
  Maker, instrument/surgical
  Maker, orthopaedic appliance
  Maker, watch
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, watch - 8283
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

7436  SEWERS, EMBROIDERERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Sewers, embroiderers and related workers sew together,
repair and  decorate garments, gloves and other products of
textile, fur, leather and  other materials by hand or by using
simple sewing machines, and perform  various related tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  performing various sewing tasks in making, altering and
     repairing articles of textile, leather and other materials;

(b)  embroidering decorative designs on garments or materials;

(c)  sewing sails, tents, awnings and similar articles;

(d)  assembling and covering umbrellas;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Embroiderer
  Maker, umbrella
  Sewer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Dressmaker - 7433
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, sewing - 8263

7311  PRECISION-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND REPAIRERS

 

     Precision-instrument makers and repairers make and repair
mechanical  watches, clocks, nautical, meteorological, optical,
surgical, dental,  orthopaedic and other precision instruments
and equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, adjusting and repairing mechanical watches and
     clocks;

(b)  making, adjusting and repairing nautical and meteorological
     instruments and equipment;

(c)  making, adjusting and repairing optical instruments;

(d)  making, adjusting and repairing surgical instruments and
     other medical equipment;

(e)  making and repairing medical, orthopaedic and dental
     appliances and prostheses;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/meteorological
  Maker, instrument/surgical
  Maker, orthopaedic appliance
  Maker, watch
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, watch - 8283
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

7424  BASKETRY WEAVERS, BRUSH MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Basketry weavers, brush makers and related workers make
wicker furniture,  brushes and brooms and weave baskets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making wicker furniture from peeled and softened rattan,
     reeds, rushes, willow branches and similar materials;

(b)  making various kinds of baskets by interlacing osier,
     rattan, reeds, rushes or similar materials;

(c)  selecting and preparing brush materials, such as bristles,
     nylon, fibres and wire, and setting them in brush base;

(d)  selecting and preparing materials, such as broom corn, bass
     and whisker fibre, and fastening them to broom handles;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, basket
  Maker, brush
  Maker, furniture/wicker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, wooden articles 7331
  Machine-operator, woodworking - 8240

7437  UPHOLSTERERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Upholsterers and related workers upholster furniture, make
mattresses, or  make and install interior decorations of textile,
leather and similar  materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  installing, arranging and securing springs, padding and
     covering material to furniture frames;

(b)  fitting and installing covers and cushioning for seats and
     other furnishings on vehicles, such as motor cars, railways
     coaches and aircraft;

(c)  making mattresses;

(d)  fitting and installing soft furnishings and interior
     decorations of textile, leather and similar materials;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, mattress
  Upholsterer, furniture
  Upholsterer, vehicle

7412  BAKERS, PASTRY-COOKS AND CONFECTIONERY MAKERS
 

     Bakers, pastry-cooks and confectionery makers make various
kinds of  bread, cakes, and other flour products, as well as
handmade chocolate and  sugar confectionery.

     Tasks include  -

(a)  making bread, cakes, biscuits, pastries, pies and other
     flour products;

(b)  making handmade confectionery from mixtures of sugar,
     chocolate and other ingredients with the help of tools and
     some machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Baker
  Confectioner
  Maker, chocolate
 Pastry-cook
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cook - 5122
  Machine-operator, bakery products 8274
  Machine-operator, bread production 8274
  Machine-operator, chocolate production - 8274

7433  TAILORS, DRESSMAKERS AND HATTERS
 

     Tailors, dressmakers and hatters make suits, dresses and
other garments  from textile fabrics, leather or any other
material except fur, carry out  alterations and repairs, or make
hats, or participate in the manufacture of  ready-to-wear
garments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making overcoats, suits, skirts, shirts, blouses, lingerie,
     corsetry and similar garments often to clients' individual
     requirements;

(b)  participating in the manufacture of ready-to-wear clothing;

(c)  making hats;

(d)  altering, restyling and repairing garments;

(e)  making and caring for costumes used in theatrical,
     television and motion picture productions;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Dressmaker
  Milliner
  Tailor
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, sewing - 8263

7213  SHEET-METAL WORKERS
 

     Sheet-metal workers make, install and repair articles and
parts of  articles of sheet metal such as sheet steel, copper,
tin, brass, aluminium,  zinc or galvanised iron.

     Tasks include -

(a)  marking sheet metal for cutting and shaping;

(b)  making and repairing household utensils and other articles
     in tin, copper and light alloys, or ornamental articles and
     fittings;

(c)  making and repairing boilers, tanks, vats and similar
     containers;

(d)  installing and repairing sheet-metal parts of vehicles and
     aircraft;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Boiler smith
  Coppersmith
  Sheet-metal worker
  Tinsmith

7311  PRECISION-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND REPAIRERS

 

     Precision-instrument makers and repairers make and repair
mechanical  watches, clocks, nautical, meteorological, optical,
surgical, dental,  orthopaedic and other precision instruments
and equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, adjusting and repairing mechanical watches and
     clocks;

(b)  making, adjusting and repairing nautical and meteorological
     instruments and equipment;

(c)  making, adjusting and repairing optical instruments;

(d)  making, adjusting and repairing surgical instruments and
     other medical equipment;

(e)  making and repairing medical, orthopaedic and dental
     appliances and prostheses;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/meteorological
  Maker, instrument/surgical
  Maker, orthopaedic appliance
  Maker, watch
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, watch - 8283
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

7432  WEAVERS, KNITTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

  
     Weavers, knitters and related workers spin and wind yarn by
hand, weave  materials on hand looms, make carpets by using a
knotting technique, knit  garment fabrics by hand or hand-
operated machine or perform similar  manufacturing tasks by hand
or hand-operated machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  spinning and winding yarn by hand;

(b)  drawing warp threads into loom by hand;

(c)  weaving plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpet or
     other fabrics on hand looms;

(d)  making carpets by using a knotting technique;

(e)  knitting garments and other articles on hand-operated
     machine or by hand;

(f)  crocheting or making braid by hand;

(g)  making nets by hand;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Knitter
  Spinner, thread and yarn
  Threader, loom
  Weaver, carpet
  Weaver cloth
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, knitting - 8262
  Machine-operator, weaving - 8262

7341  COMPOSITORS, TYPESETTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Compositors, typesetters and related workers set and arrange
printing  type by hand or machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting type by hand and printing copies with simple
     machines;

(b)  operating linotype, monotype and typecasting machines;

(c)  arranging set-up of type and spacing material and
     illustration blocks to make pages;

(d)  arranging pages in sequence for printing;

(e)  operating electronic key-boarding machines which enable
     characters to be converted into film, sensitised tape or
     paper for subsequent photo plate-making;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Compositor, printing
  Printer
  Typesetter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Press-operator, printing/cylinder 8251

7424  BASKETRY WEAVERS, BRUSH MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Basketry weavers, brush makers and related workers make
wicker furniture,  brushes and brooms and weave baskets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making wicker furniture from peeled and softened rattan,
     reeds, rushes, willow branches and similar materials;

(b)  making various kinds of baskets by interlacing osier,
     rattan, reeds, rushes or similar materials;

(c)  selecting and preparing brush materials, such as bristles,
     nylon, fibres and wire, and setting them in brush base;

(d)  selecting and preparing materials, such as broom corn, bass
     and whisker fibre, and fastening them to broom handles;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, basket
  Maker, brush
  Maker, furniture/wicker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, wooden articles 7331
  Machine-operator, woodworking - 8240

7413  DAIRY PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Dairy products makers process butter and various types of
cheese, cream  or other dairy products.

     Tasks  include  -

(a)  boiling milk, separating cream from milk, churning cream
     into butter;

(b)  curdling milk, heating curd until it reaches desired
     firmness, draining curd and finally placing cheese into
     moulds to press it into shape;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, butter
  Maker, cheese
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, dairy products 8272
  Machine-operator, milk processing 8272

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

7433  TAILORS, DRESSMAKERS AND HATTERS
 

     Tailors, dressmakers and hatters make suits, dresses and
other garments  from textile fabrics, leather or any other
material except fur, carry out  alterations and repairs, or make
hats, or participate in the manufacture of  ready-to-wear
garments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making overcoats, suits, skirts, shirts, blouses, lingerie,
     corsetry and similar garments often to clients' individual
     requirements;

(b)  participating in the manufacture of ready-to-wear clothing;

(c)  making hats;

(d)  altering, restyling and repairing garments;

(e)  making and caring for costumes used in theatrical,
     television and motion picture productions;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Dressmaker
  Milliner
  Tailor
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, sewing - 8263

7436  SEWERS, EMBROIDERERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Sewers, embroiderers and related workers sew together,
repair and  decorate garments, gloves and other products of
textile, fur, leather and  other materials by hand or by using
simple sewing machines, and perform  various related tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  performing various sewing tasks in making, altering and
     repairing articles of textile, leather and other materials;

(b)  embroidering decorative designs on garments or materials;

(c)  sewing sails, tents, awnings and similar articles;

(d)  assembling and covering umbrellas;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Embroiderer
  Maker, umbrella
  Sewer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Dressmaker - 7433
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, sewing - 8263

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

7413  DAIRY PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Dairy products makers process butter and various types of
cheese, cream  or other dairy products.

     Tasks  include  -

(a)  boiling milk, separating cream from milk, churning cream
     into butter;

(b)  curdling milk, heating curd until it reaches desired
     firmness, draining curd and finally placing cheese into
     moulds to press it into shape;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, butter
  Maker, cheese
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, dairy products 8272
  Machine-operator, milk processing 8272

7412  BAKERS, PASTRY-COOKS AND CONFECTIONERY MAKERS
 

     Bakers, pastry-cooks and confectionery makers make various
kinds of  bread, cakes, and other flour products, as well as
handmade chocolate and  sugar confectionery.

     Tasks include  -

(a)  making bread, cakes, biscuits, pastries, pies and other
     flour products;

(b)  making handmade confectionery from mixtures of sugar,
     chocolate and other ingredients with the help of tools and
     some machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Baker
  Confectioner
  Maker, chocolate
 Pastry-cook
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cook - 5122
  Machine-operator, bakery products 8274
  Machine-operator, bread production 8274
  Machine-operator, chocolate production - 8274

7416  TOBACCO PREPARERS AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Tobacco preparers and tobacco products makers prepare
tobacco leaves and  make various tobacco products.

     Tasks  include -

(a)  grading cured tobacco leaves by type, quality and locality
     where grown;

(b)  mixing tobacco leaves according to formula to obtain a blend
     of distinct flavour;

(c)  tending vacuum container which moistens tobacco for further
     processing;

(d)  removing midribs and stalks from tobacco leaves and
     shredding tobacco;

(e)  making cigars, cigarettes, snuff and other tobacco products
     by hand or with simple machines;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, tobacco
  Maker, cigar
  Maker, cigarette
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, cigar production - 8279
  Machine-operator, cigarette production - 8279

7311  PRECISION-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND REPAIRERS

 

     Precision-instrument makers and repairers make and repair
mechanical  watches, clocks, nautical, meteorological, optical,
surgical, dental,  orthopaedic and other precision instruments
and equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, adjusting and repairing mechanical watches and
     clocks;

(b)  making, adjusting and repairing nautical and meteorological
     instruments and equipment;

(c)  making, adjusting and repairing optical instruments;

(d)  making, adjusting and repairing surgical instruments and
     other medical equipment;

(e)  making and repairing medical, orthopaedic and dental
     appliances and prostheses;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/meteorological
  Maker, instrument/surgical
  Maker, orthopaedic appliance
  Maker, watch
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, watch - 8283
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

7412  BAKERS, PASTRY-COOKS AND CONFECTIONERY MAKERS
 

     Bakers, pastry-cooks and confectionery makers make various
kinds of  bread, cakes, and other flour products, as well as
handmade chocolate and  sugar confectionery.

     Tasks include  -

(a)  making bread, cakes, biscuits, pastries, pies and other
     flour products;

(b)  making handmade confectionery from mixtures of sugar,
     chocolate and other ingredients with the help of tools and
     some machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Baker
  Confectioner
  Maker, chocolate
 Pastry-cook
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cook - 5122
  Machine-operator, bakery products 8274
  Machine-operator, bread production 8274
  Machine-operator, chocolate production - 8274

7433  TAILORS, DRESSMAKERS AND HATTERS
 

     Tailors, dressmakers and hatters make suits, dresses and
other garments  from textile fabrics, leather or any other
material except fur, carry out  alterations and repairs, or make
hats, or participate in the manufacture of  ready-to-wear
garments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making overcoats, suits, skirts, shirts, blouses, lingerie,
     corsetry and similar garments often to clients' individual
     requirements;

(b)  participating in the manufacture of ready-to-wear clothing;

(c)  making hats;

(d)  altering, restyling and repairing garments;

(e)  making and caring for costumes used in theatrical,
     television and motion picture productions;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Dressmaker
  Milliner
  Tailor
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, sewing - 8263

7413  DAIRY PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Dairy products makers process butter and various types of
cheese, cream  or other dairy products.

     Tasks  include  -

(a)  boiling milk, separating cream from milk, churning cream
     into butter;

(b)  curdling milk, heating curd until it reaches desired
     firmness, draining curd and finally placing cheese into
     moulds to press it into shape;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, butter
  Maker, cheese
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, dairy products 8272
  Machine-operator, milk processing 8272

7311  PRECISION-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND REPAIRERS

 

     Precision-instrument makers and repairers make and repair
mechanical  watches, clocks, nautical, meteorological, optical,
surgical, dental,  orthopaedic and other precision instruments
and equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, adjusting and repairing mechanical watches and
     clocks;

(b)  making, adjusting and repairing nautical and meteorological
     instruments and equipment;

(c)  making, adjusting and repairing optical instruments;

(d)  making, adjusting and repairing surgical instruments and
     other medical equipment;

(e)  making and repairing medical, orthopaedic and dental
     appliances and prostheses;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/meteorological
  Maker, instrument/surgical
  Maker, orthopaedic appliance
  Maker, watch
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, watch - 8283
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

7312  MUSICAL-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND TUNERS
 

     Musical-instrument makers and tuners make, repair and tune
stringed, wind  or percussion instruments with hand or power
tools.

     Tasks include

(a)  making and repairing accordions, stringed and wind
     instruments;

(b)  building and repairing organs and making parts for such
     organs;

(c)  making instrumental parts of pianos and assembling and
     repairing such pianos;

(d)  tuning organs, pianos and other instruments;

(e)  making and repairing other musical instruments;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/musical (brass)
  Maker, instrument/musical (string)
  Maker, instrument/musical (woodwind)
  Tuner, musical instrument

7432  WEAVERS, KNITTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

  
     Weavers, knitters and related workers spin and wind yarn by
hand, weave  materials on hand looms, make carpets by using a
knotting technique, knit  garment fabrics by hand or hand-
operated machine or perform similar  manufacturing tasks by hand
or hand-operated machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  spinning and winding yarn by hand;

(b)  drawing warp threads into loom by hand;

(c)  weaving plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpet or
     other fabrics on hand looms;

(d)  making carpets by using a knotting technique;

(e)  knitting garments and other articles on hand-operated
     machine or by hand;

(f)  crocheting or making braid by hand;

(g)  making nets by hand;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Knitter
  Spinner, thread and yarn
  Threader, loom
  Weaver, carpet
  Weaver cloth
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, knitting - 8262
  Machine-operator, weaving - 8262

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

7424  BASKETRY WEAVERS, BRUSH MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Basketry weavers, brush makers and related workers make
wicker furniture,  brushes and brooms and weave baskets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making wicker furniture from peeled and softened rattan,
     reeds, rushes, willow branches and similar materials;

(b)  making various kinds of baskets by interlacing osier,
     rattan, reeds, rushes or similar materials;

(c)  selecting and preparing brush materials, such as bristles,
     nylon, fibres and wire, and setting them in brush base;

(d)  selecting and preparing materials, such as broom corn, bass
     and whisker fibre, and fastening them to broom handles;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, basket
  Maker, brush
  Maker, furniture/wicker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, wooden articles 7331
  Machine-operator, woodworking - 8240

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

7414  FRUIT, VEGETABLE AND RELATED PRESERVERS
 

     Fruit, vegetable and related preservers process or preserve
fruit, nuts  and related foods in various ways including cooking,
drying, salting, or juice  or oil extraction.

     Tasks include -

(a)  extracting juices from various fruits;

(b)  extracting oils from oil-bearing seeds, nuts or fruits;

(c)  cooking, salting or drying fruit, vegetables and related
     foods;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Expeller, oil
  Preserver, fruit
  Preserver, vegetable
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, canning/fruit - 8275
  Machine-operator, canning/vegetables - 8275

7424  BASKETRY WEAVERS, BRUSH MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Basketry weavers, brush makers and related workers make
wicker furniture,  brushes and brooms and weave baskets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making wicker furniture from peeled and softened rattan,
     reeds, rushes, willow branches and similar materials;

(b)  making various kinds of baskets by interlacing osier,
     rattan, reeds, rushes or similar materials;

(c)  selecting and preparing brush materials, such as bristles,
     nylon, fibres and wire, and setting them in brush base;

(d)  selecting and preparing materials, such as broom corn, bass
     and whisker fibre, and fastening them to broom handles;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, basket
  Maker, brush
  Maker, furniture/wicker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, wooden articles 7331
  Machine-operator, woodworking - 8240

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

7437  UPHOLSTERERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Upholsterers and related workers upholster furniture, make
mattresses, or  make and install interior decorations of textile,
leather and similar  materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  installing, arranging and securing springs, padding and
     covering material to furniture frames;

(b)  fitting and installing covers and cushioning for seats and
     other furnishings on vehicles, such as motor cars, railways
     coaches and aircraft;

(c)  making mattresses;

(d)  fitting and installing soft furnishings and interior
     decorations of textile, leather and similar materials;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, mattress
  Upholsterer, furniture
  Upholsterer, vehicle

7424  BASKETRY WEAVERS, BRUSH MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Basketry weavers, brush makers and related workers make
wicker furniture,  brushes and brooms and weave baskets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making wicker furniture from peeled and softened rattan,
     reeds, rushes, willow branches and similar materials;

(b)  making various kinds of baskets by interlacing osier,
     rattan, reeds, rushes or similar materials;

(c)  selecting and preparing brush materials, such as bristles,
     nylon, fibres and wire, and setting them in brush base;

(d)  selecting and preparing materials, such as broom corn, bass
     and whisker fibre, and fastening them to broom handles;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, basket
  Maker, brush
  Maker, furniture/wicker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, wooden articles 7331
  Machine-operator, woodworking - 8240

7222  TOOL-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Tool-makers and related workers make and repair tools,
sports guns,  locks, dies, patterns and other metal articles, as
well as make engines or  machinery components, and parts thereof,
using hand and machine tools to work  metal to fine tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, maintaining and repairing dies, jigs, gauges and
     fixtures, using hand tools and various kinds of machine
     tools;

(b)  making engines or machinery components, and parts thereof;

(c)  fitting and assembling parts to make and repair jigs,
     fixtures and gauges;

(d)  repairing and modifying sports guns and other small arms;

(e)  making, fitting, assembling, repairing and installing lock
     parts and locks;

(f)  making and repairing metal patterns for preparation of
     foundry moulds;

(g)  laying out lines and reference points on metal stock to
     guide other workers who cut, turn, mill, grind or otherwise
     shape metal;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Gunsmith
  Locksmith
  Toolmaker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator tool production - 8211

7433  TAILORS, DRESSMAKERS AND HATTERS
 

     Tailors, dressmakers and hatters make suits, dresses and
other garments  from textile fabrics, leather or any other
material except fur, carry out  alterations and repairs, or make
hats, or participate in the manufacture of  ready-to-wear
garments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making overcoats, suits, skirts, shirts, blouses, lingerie,
     corsetry and similar garments often to clients' individual
     requirements;

(b)  participating in the manufacture of ready-to-wear clothing;

(c)  making hats;

(d)  altering, restyling and repairing garments;

(e)  making and caring for costumes used in theatrical,
     television and motion picture productions;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Dressmaker
  Milliner
  Tailor
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, sewing - 8263

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

7433  TAILORS, DRESSMAKERS AND HATTERS
 

     Tailors, dressmakers and hatters make suits, dresses and
other garments  from textile fabrics, leather or any other
material except fur, carry out  alterations and repairs, or make
hats, or participate in the manufacture of  ready-to-wear
garments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making overcoats, suits, skirts, shirts, blouses, lingerie,
     corsetry and similar garments often to clients' individual
     requirements;

(b)  participating in the manufacture of ready-to-wear clothing;

(c)  making hats;

(d)  altering, restyling and repairing garments;

(e)  making and caring for costumes used in theatrical,
     television and motion picture productions;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Dressmaker
  Milliner
  Tailor
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, sewing - 8263

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

7413  DAIRY PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Dairy products makers process butter and various types of
cheese, cream  or other dairy products.

     Tasks  include  -

(a)  boiling milk, separating cream from milk, churning cream
     into butter;

(b)  curdling milk, heating curd until it reaches desired
     firmness, draining curd and finally placing cheese into
     moulds to press it into shape;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, butter
  Maker, cheese
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, dairy products 8272
  Machine-operator, milk processing 8272

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

7311  PRECISION-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND REPAIRERS

 

     Precision-instrument makers and repairers make and repair
mechanical  watches, clocks, nautical, meteorological, optical,
surgical, dental,  orthopaedic and other precision instruments
and equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, adjusting and repairing mechanical watches and
     clocks;

(b)  making, adjusting and repairing nautical and meteorological
     instruments and equipment;

(c)  making, adjusting and repairing optical instruments;

(d)  making, adjusting and repairing surgical instruments and
     other medical equipment;

(e)  making and repairing medical, orthopaedic and dental
     appliances and prostheses;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/meteorological
  Maker, instrument/surgical
  Maker, orthopaedic appliance
  Maker, watch
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, watch - 8283
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

7312  MUSICAL-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND TUNERS
 

     Musical-instrument makers and tuners make, repair and tune
stringed, wind  or percussion instruments with hand or power
tools.

     Tasks include

(a)  making and repairing accordions, stringed and wind
     instruments;

(b)  building and repairing organs and making parts for such
     organs;

(c)  making instrumental parts of pianos and assembling and
     repairing such pianos;

(d)  tuning organs, pianos and other instruments;

(e)  making and repairing other musical instruments;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/musical (brass)
  Maker, instrument/musical (string)
  Maker, instrument/musical (woodwind)
  Tuner, musical instrument

7311  PRECISION-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND REPAIRERS

 

     Precision-instrument makers and repairers make and repair
mechanical  watches, clocks, nautical, meteorological, optical,
surgical, dental,  orthopaedic and other precision instruments
and equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, adjusting and repairing mechanical watches and
     clocks;

(b)  making, adjusting and repairing nautical and meteorological
     instruments and equipment;

(c)  making, adjusting and repairing optical instruments;

(d)  making, adjusting and repairing surgical instruments and
     other medical equipment;

(e)  making and repairing medical, orthopaedic and dental
     appliances and prostheses;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/meteorological
  Maker, instrument/surgical
  Maker, orthopaedic appliance
  Maker, watch
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, watch - 8283
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

7313  JEWELLERY AND PRECIOUS-METAL WORKERS
 

     Jewellery and precious-metal workers make and repair
jewellery and  precious metalware, cut and set gems and engrave
designs on jewellery and  precious metal articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  casting jewellery and other non-ferrous metal articles by
     hand;

(b)  making complete jewellery articles such as rings, brooches
     and bracelets;

(c)  cutting and polishing gems and setting them in jewellery
     articles;

(d)  making and repairing precious metalware;

(e)  rolling and beating precious metals; engraving letters and
     designs on jewellery and precious metalware;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, jewellery
  Goldsmith
  Jeweller
  Setter, gem
  Silversmith

7222  TOOL-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Tool-makers and related workers make and repair tools,
sports guns,  locks, dies, patterns and other metal articles, as
well as make engines or  machinery components, and parts thereof,
using hand and machine tools to work  metal to fine tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, maintaining and repairing dies, jigs, gauges and
     fixtures, using hand tools and various kinds of machine
     tools;

(b)  making engines or machinery components, and parts thereof;

(c)  fitting and assembling parts to make and repair jigs,
     fixtures and gauges;

(d)  repairing and modifying sports guns and other small arms;

(e)  making, fitting, assembling, repairing and installing lock
     parts and locks;

(f)  making and repairing metal patterns for preparation of
     foundry moulds;

(g)  laying out lines and reference points on metal stock to
     guide other workers who cut, turn, mill, grind or otherwise
     shape metal;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Gunsmith
  Locksmith
  Toolmaker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator tool production - 8211

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

7433  TAILORS, DRESSMAKERS AND HATTERS
 

     Tailors, dressmakers and hatters make suits, dresses and
other garments  from textile fabrics, leather or any other
material except fur, carry out  alterations and repairs, or make
hats, or participate in the manufacture of  ready-to-wear
garments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making overcoats, suits, skirts, shirts, blouses, lingerie,
     corsetry and similar garments often to clients' individual
     requirements;

(b)  participating in the manufacture of ready-to-wear clothing;

(c)  making hats;

(d)  altering, restyling and repairing garments;

(e)  making and caring for costumes used in theatrical,
     television and motion picture productions;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Dressmaker
  Milliner
  Tailor
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, sewing - 8263

6141  FORESTRY WORKERS AND LOGGERS
 
     Forestry workers and loggers carry out the necessary
operations to  cultivate, conserve and exploit forests, for sale
or delivery of forestry  products on a regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a) establishing and caring for forest stands;

(b)  locating trees to be felled and estimating volume of timber;

(c)  trimming, topping and felling trees and sawing them into
     logs;

(d)  shaping rough wooden products from logs at felling site;

(e)  stacking logs, loading them in chutes or floating them down
     rivers;

(f)  keeping watch to detect forest fires and participating in
     firefighting operations;

(g)  delivering or marketing forestry products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Climber, logging
  Cruiser, timber
  Feller-bucker, tree
  Forestry worker, skilled
  Logger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/forestry
        - 1221
  General manager, forestry - 1311
  Labourer, forestry - 9212
  Managing director, enterprise/forestry - 1210
  Operator, forestry machinery - 8331

7124  CARPENTERS AND JOINERS
 

     Carpenters and joiners cut, shape, assemble, erect, maintain
and repair various types of wooden structures and fittings.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, altering and repairing structural and other woodwork
     at a work-bench and on a construction site;

(b)  constructing, erecting and installing heavy-framed wooden
     structures on building sites;

(c)  fitting, assembling and altering internal and external
     fixtures of buildings, such as walls, doors, door and window
     frames, facings and panelling;

(d)  making, repairing and fitting scenic equipment for
     theatrical 
     performances, motion picture or television productions;

(e)  constructing, assembling, altering and repairing wooden
     fixtures and fittings in train coaches, aircraft, ships,
     boats, floats, pontoons and other vehicles;

(f)  cutting, shaping, fitting and assembling wooden parts,
     mainly at a work-bench;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carpenter
  Joiner
  Shipwright, wood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cabinet-maker - 7422
  Wheel-wright - 7422

7437  UPHOLSTERERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Upholsterers and related workers upholster furniture, make
mattresses, or  make and install interior decorations of textile,
leather and similar  materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  installing, arranging and securing springs, padding and
     covering material to furniture frames;

(b)  fitting and installing covers and cushioning for seats and
     other furnishings on vehicles, such as motor cars, railways
     coaches and aircraft;

(c)  making mattresses;

(d)  fitting and installing soft furnishings and interior
     decorations of textile, leather and similar materials;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, mattress
  Upholsterer, furniture
  Upholsterer, vehicle

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

7432  WEAVERS, KNITTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

  
     Weavers, knitters and related workers spin and wind yarn by
hand, weave  materials on hand looms, make carpets by using a
knotting technique, knit  garment fabrics by hand or hand-
operated machine or perform similar  manufacturing tasks by hand
or hand-operated machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  spinning and winding yarn by hand;

(b)  drawing warp threads into loom by hand;

(c)  weaving plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpet or
     other fabrics on hand looms;

(d)  making carpets by using a knotting technique;

(e)  knitting garments and other articles on hand-operated
     machine or by hand;

(f)  crocheting or making braid by hand;

(g)  making nets by hand;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Knitter
  Spinner, thread and yarn
  Threader, loom
  Weaver, carpet
  Weaver cloth
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, knitting - 8262
  Machine-operator, weaving - 8262

7412  BAKERS, PASTRY-COOKS AND CONFECTIONERY MAKERS
 

     Bakers, pastry-cooks and confectionery makers make various
kinds of  bread, cakes, and other flour products, as well as
handmade chocolate and  sugar confectionery.

     Tasks include  -

(a)  making bread, cakes, biscuits, pastries, pies and other
     flour products;

(b)  making handmade confectionery from mixtures of sugar,
     chocolate and other ingredients with the help of tools and
     some machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Baker
  Confectioner
  Maker, chocolate
 Pastry-cook
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cook - 5122
  Machine-operator, bakery products 8274
  Machine-operator, bread production 8274
  Machine-operator, chocolate production - 8274

7312  MUSICAL-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND TUNERS
 

     Musical-instrument makers and tuners make, repair and tune
stringed, wind  or percussion instruments with hand or power
tools.

     Tasks include

(a)  making and repairing accordions, stringed and wind
     instruments;

(b)  building and repairing organs and making parts for such
     organs;

(c)  making instrumental parts of pianos and assembling and
     repairing such pianos;

(d)  tuning organs, pianos and other instruments;

(e)  making and repairing other musical instruments;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/musical (brass)
  Maker, instrument/musical (string)
  Maker, instrument/musical (woodwind)
  Tuner, musical instrument

7311  PRECISION-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND REPAIRERS

 

     Precision-instrument makers and repairers make and repair
mechanical  watches, clocks, nautical, meteorological, optical,
surgical, dental,  orthopaedic and other precision instruments
and equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, adjusting and repairing mechanical watches and
     clocks;

(b)  making, adjusting and repairing nautical and meteorological
     instruments and equipment;

(c)  making, adjusting and repairing optical instruments;

(d)  making, adjusting and repairing surgical instruments and
     other medical equipment;

(e)  making and repairing medical, orthopaedic and dental
     appliances and prostheses;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/meteorological
  Maker, instrument/surgical
  Maker, orthopaedic appliance
  Maker, watch
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, watch - 8283
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

7412  BAKERS, PASTRY-COOKS AND CONFECTIONERY MAKERS
 

     Bakers, pastry-cooks and confectionery makers make various
kinds of  bread, cakes, and other flour products, as well as
handmade chocolate and  sugar confectionery.

     Tasks include  -

(a)  making bread, cakes, biscuits, pastries, pies and other
     flour products;

(b)  making handmade confectionery from mixtures of sugar,
     chocolate and other ingredients with the help of tools and
     some machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Baker
  Confectioner
  Maker, chocolate
 Pastry-cook
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cook - 5122
  Machine-operator, bakery products 8274
  Machine-operator, bread production 8274
  Machine-operator, chocolate production - 8274

7311  PRECISION-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND REPAIRERS

 

     Precision-instrument makers and repairers make and repair
mechanical  watches, clocks, nautical, meteorological, optical,
surgical, dental,  orthopaedic and other precision instruments
and equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, adjusting and repairing mechanical watches and
     clocks;

(b)  making, adjusting and repairing nautical and meteorological
     instruments and equipment;

(c)  making, adjusting and repairing optical instruments;

(d)  making, adjusting and repairing surgical instruments and
     other medical equipment;

(e)  making and repairing medical, orthopaedic and dental
     appliances and prostheses;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/meteorological
  Maker, instrument/surgical
  Maker, orthopaedic appliance
  Maker, watch
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, watch - 8283
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

7343  PRINTING ENGRAVERS AND ETCHERS
 

     Printing engravers and etchers engrave lithographic stones
and printing  plates, rollers, dies and blocks by various
processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting designs through film applied to surface of
     lithographic stones;

(b)  engraving steel and copper plates, rollers, dies or wood,
     rubber and linoleum blocks by hand;

(c)  engraving metal plates and rollers by machine;

(d)  transferring designs from lithographic stone to metal
     plates;

(e)  performing all or several tasks in preparing printing plates
     by photogravure process;

(f)  etching metal plates or rollers with acid and retouching;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Engraver, printing/lithographic stone
  Engraver, printing/metal plate
  Etcher, printing/metal plate
  Photo-engraver
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Designer, graphic - 3471

7312  MUSICAL-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND TUNERS
 

     Musical-instrument makers and tuners make, repair and tune
stringed, wind  or percussion instruments with hand or power
tools.

     Tasks include

(a)  making and repairing accordions, stringed and wind
     instruments;

(b)  building and repairing organs and making parts for such
     organs;

(c)  making instrumental parts of pianos and assembling and
     repairing such pianos;

(d)  tuning organs, pianos and other instruments;

(e)  making and repairing other musical instruments;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/musical (brass)
  Maker, instrument/musical (string)
  Maker, instrument/musical (woodwind)
  Tuner, musical instrument

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

7312  MUSICAL-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND TUNERS
 

     Musical-instrument makers and tuners make, repair and tune
stringed, wind  or percussion instruments with hand or power
tools.

     Tasks include

(a)  making and repairing accordions, stringed and wind
     instruments;

(b)  building and repairing organs and making parts for such
     organs;

(c)  making instrumental parts of pianos and assembling and
     repairing such pianos;

(d)  tuning organs, pianos and other instruments;

(e)  making and repairing other musical instruments;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/musical (brass)
  Maker, instrument/musical (string)
  Maker, instrument/musical (woodwind)
  Tuner, musical instrument

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

7412  BAKERS, PASTRY-COOKS AND CONFECTIONERY MAKERS
 

     Bakers, pastry-cooks and confectionery makers make various
kinds of  bread, cakes, and other flour products, as well as
handmade chocolate and  sugar confectionery.

     Tasks include  -

(a)  making bread, cakes, biscuits, pastries, pies and other
     flour products;

(b)  making handmade confectionery from mixtures of sugar,
     chocolate and other ingredients with the help of tools and
     some machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Baker
  Confectioner
  Maker, chocolate
 Pastry-cook
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cook - 5122
  Machine-operator, bakery products 8274
  Machine-operator, bread production 8274
  Machine-operator, chocolate production - 8274

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

7321  ABRASIVE WHEEL FORMERS, POTTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Abrasive wheel formers, potters and related workers make
pottery,  porcelain ware, bricks, tiles and abrasive wheels.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making articles of pottery and porcelain;

(b)  making clay or plaster-of-Paris moulds;

(c)  forming articles on potter's wheel with hands, or using
     interior or exterior moulding shapes and shaping tools;

(d)  forming articles by casting semi-liquid clay in plaster-of-
     Paris moulds;

(e)  forming bricks and tiles into special shapes by hand;

(f)  making articles by pressing plastic clay into moulds by
     hand;

(g)  operating screw-press or hydraulic press to make products
     from clay dust;

(h)  operating a machine which extrudes moist clay for further
     processing;

(i)  forming abrasive wheels by moulding and pressing abrasive
     mixture;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Caster, pottery and porcelain
  Modeller, pottery and porcelain
  Potter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln operator, brick and tile - 8131
  Kiln operator, pottery and porcelain 8131

7313  JEWELLERY AND PRECIOUS-METAL WORKERS
 

     Jewellery and precious-metal workers make and repair
jewellery and  precious metalware, cut and set gems and engrave
designs on jewellery and  precious metal articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  casting jewellery and other non-ferrous metal articles by
     hand;

(b)  making complete jewellery articles such as rings, brooches
     and bracelets;

(c)  cutting and polishing gems and setting them in jewellery
     articles;

(d)  making and repairing precious metalware;

(e)  rolling and beating precious metals; engraving letters and
     designs on jewellery and precious metalware;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, jewellery
  Goldsmith
  Jeweller
  Setter, gem
  Silversmith

7311  PRECISION-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND REPAIRERS

 

     Precision-instrument makers and repairers make and repair
mechanical  watches, clocks, nautical, meteorological, optical,
surgical, dental,  orthopaedic and other precision instruments
and equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, adjusting and repairing mechanical watches and
     clocks;

(b)  making, adjusting and repairing nautical and meteorological
     instruments and equipment;

(c)  making, adjusting and repairing optical instruments;

(d)  making, adjusting and repairing surgical instruments and
     other medical equipment;

(e)  making and repairing medical, orthopaedic and dental
     appliances and prostheses;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/meteorological
  Maker, instrument/surgical
  Maker, orthopaedic appliance
  Maker, watch
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, watch - 8283
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

7222  TOOL-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Tool-makers and related workers make and repair tools,
sports guns,  locks, dies, patterns and other metal articles, as
well as make engines or  machinery components, and parts thereof,
using hand and machine tools to work  metal to fine tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, maintaining and repairing dies, jigs, gauges and
     fixtures, using hand tools and various kinds of machine
     tools;

(b)  making engines or machinery components, and parts thereof;

(c)  fitting and assembling parts to make and repair jigs,
     fixtures and gauges;

(d)  repairing and modifying sports guns and other small arms;

(e)  making, fitting, assembling, repairing and installing lock
     parts and locks;

(f)  making and repairing metal patterns for preparation of
     foundry moulds;

(g)  laying out lines and reference points on metal stock to
     guide other workers who cut, turn, mill, grind or otherwise
     shape metal;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Gunsmith
  Locksmith
  Toolmaker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator tool production - 8211

7437  UPHOLSTERERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Upholsterers and related workers upholster furniture, make
mattresses, or  make and install interior decorations of textile,
leather and similar  materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  installing, arranging and securing springs, padding and
     covering material to furniture frames;

(b)  fitting and installing covers and cushioning for seats and
     other furnishings on vehicles, such as motor cars, railways
     coaches and aircraft;

(c)  making mattresses;

(d)  fitting and installing soft furnishings and interior
     decorations of textile, leather and similar materials;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, mattress
  Upholsterer, furniture
  Upholsterer, vehicle

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

7432  WEAVERS, KNITTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

  
     Weavers, knitters and related workers spin and wind yarn by
hand, weave  materials on hand looms, make carpets by using a
knotting technique, knit  garment fabrics by hand or hand-
operated machine or perform similar  manufacturing tasks by hand
or hand-operated machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  spinning and winding yarn by hand;

(b)  drawing warp threads into loom by hand;

(c)  weaving plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpet or
     other fabrics on hand looms;

(d)  making carpets by using a knotting technique;

(e)  knitting garments and other articles on hand-operated
     machine or by hand;

(f)  crocheting or making braid by hand;

(g)  making nets by hand;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Knitter
  Spinner, thread and yarn
  Threader, loom
  Weaver, carpet
  Weaver cloth
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, knitting - 8262
  Machine-operator, weaving - 8262

7436  SEWERS, EMBROIDERERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Sewers, embroiderers and related workers sew together,
repair and  decorate garments, gloves and other products of
textile, fur, leather and  other materials by hand or by using
simple sewing machines, and perform  various related tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  performing various sewing tasks in making, altering and
     repairing articles of textile, leather and other materials;

(b)  embroidering decorative designs on garments or materials;

(c)  sewing sails, tents, awnings and similar articles;

(d)  assembling and covering umbrellas;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Embroiderer
  Maker, umbrella
  Sewer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Dressmaker - 7433
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, sewing - 8263

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

7433  TAILORS, DRESSMAKERS AND HATTERS
 

     Tailors, dressmakers and hatters make suits, dresses and
other garments  from textile fabrics, leather or any other
material except fur, carry out  alterations and repairs, or make
hats, or participate in the manufacture of  ready-to-wear
garments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making overcoats, suits, skirts, shirts, blouses, lingerie,
     corsetry and similar garments often to clients' individual
     requirements;

(b)  participating in the manufacture of ready-to-wear clothing;

(c)  making hats;

(d)  altering, restyling and repairing garments;

(e)  making and caring for costumes used in theatrical,
     television and motion picture productions;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Dressmaker
  Milliner
  Tailor
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, sewing - 8263

7416  TOBACCO PREPARERS AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Tobacco preparers and tobacco products makers prepare
tobacco leaves and  make various tobacco products.

     Tasks  include -

(a)  grading cured tobacco leaves by type, quality and locality
     where grown;

(b)  mixing tobacco leaves according to formula to obtain a blend
     of distinct flavour;

(c)  tending vacuum container which moistens tobacco for further
     processing;

(d)  removing midribs and stalks from tobacco leaves and
     shredding tobacco;

(e)  making cigars, cigarettes, snuff and other tobacco products
     by hand or with simple machines;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, tobacco
  Maker, cigar
  Maker, cigarette
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, cigar production - 8279
  Machine-operator, cigarette production - 8279

7437  UPHOLSTERERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Upholsterers and related workers upholster furniture, make
mattresses, or  make and install interior decorations of textile,
leather and similar  materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  installing, arranging and securing springs, padding and
     covering material to furniture frames;

(b)  fitting and installing covers and cushioning for seats and
     other furnishings on vehicles, such as motor cars, railways
     coaches and aircraft;

(c)  making mattresses;

(d)  fitting and installing soft furnishings and interior
     decorations of textile, leather and similar materials;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, mattress
  Upholsterer, furniture
  Upholsterer, vehicle

7412  BAKERS, PASTRY-COOKS AND CONFECTIONERY MAKERS
 

     Bakers, pastry-cooks and confectionery makers make various
kinds of  bread, cakes, and other flour products, as well as
handmade chocolate and  sugar confectionery.

     Tasks include  -

(a)  making bread, cakes, biscuits, pastries, pies and other
     flour products;

(b)  making handmade confectionery from mixtures of sugar,
     chocolate and other ingredients with the help of tools and
     some machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Baker
  Confectioner
  Maker, chocolate
 Pastry-cook
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cook - 5122
  Machine-operator, bakery products 8274
  Machine-operator, bread production 8274
  Machine-operator, chocolate production - 8274

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

7343  PRINTING ENGRAVERS AND ETCHERS
 

     Printing engravers and etchers engrave lithographic stones
and printing  plates, rollers, dies and blocks by various
processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting designs through film applied to surface of
     lithographic stones;

(b)  engraving steel and copper plates, rollers, dies or wood,
     rubber and linoleum blocks by hand;

(c)  engraving metal plates and rollers by machine;

(d)  transferring designs from lithographic stone to metal
     plates;

(e)  performing all or several tasks in preparing printing plates
     by photogravure process;

(f)  etching metal plates or rollers with acid and retouching;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Engraver, printing/lithographic stone
  Engraver, printing/metal plate
  Etcher, printing/metal plate
  Photo-engraver
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Designer, graphic - 3471

7346  SILK-SCREEN, BLOCK AND TEXTILE PRINTERS
 
 

     Silk-screen, block and textile printers cut stencils for use
in  silk-screen printing and print on paper, metal, textiles and
other materials  with silk-screens, blocks of rubber, wood or
other materials, or engraved  printing rollers.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting stencils for silk-screen printing;

(b)  printing on paper, metal, textiles and other materials by
     silk-screen process;

(c)  printing designs and patterns on cloth or wallpaper with
     engraved blocks or machines equipped with engraved rollers;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cutter, stencil/silk-screen
  Printer, block
  Printer, silk-screen
  Printer, textile

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

7414  FRUIT, VEGETABLE AND RELATED PRESERVERS
 

     Fruit, vegetable and related preservers process or preserve
fruit, nuts  and related foods in various ways including cooking,
drying, salting, or juice  or oil extraction.

     Tasks include -

(a)  extracting juices from various fruits;

(b)  extracting oils from oil-bearing seeds, nuts or fruits;

(c)  cooking, salting or drying fruit, vegetables and related
     foods;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Expeller, oil
  Preserver, fruit
  Preserver, vegetable
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, canning/fruit - 8275
  Machine-operator, canning/vegetables - 8275

7311  PRECISION-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND REPAIRERS

 

     Precision-instrument makers and repairers make and repair
mechanical  watches, clocks, nautical, meteorological, optical,
surgical, dental,  orthopaedic and other precision instruments
and equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, adjusting and repairing mechanical watches and
     clocks;

(b)  making, adjusting and repairing nautical and meteorological
     instruments and equipment;

(c)  making, adjusting and repairing optical instruments;

(d)  making, adjusting and repairing surgical instruments and
     other medical equipment;

(e)  making and repairing medical, orthopaedic and dental
     appliances and prostheses;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/meteorological
  Maker, instrument/surgical
  Maker, orthopaedic appliance
  Maker, watch
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, watch - 8283
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

7222  TOOL-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Tool-makers and related workers make and repair tools,
sports guns,  locks, dies, patterns and other metal articles, as
well as make engines or  machinery components, and parts thereof,
using hand and machine tools to work  metal to fine tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, maintaining and repairing dies, jigs, gauges and
     fixtures, using hand tools and various kinds of machine
     tools;

(b)  making engines or machinery components, and parts thereof;

(c)  fitting and assembling parts to make and repair jigs,
     fixtures and gauges;

(d)  repairing and modifying sports guns and other small arms;

(e)  making, fitting, assembling, repairing and installing lock
     parts and locks;

(f)  making and repairing metal patterns for preparation of
     foundry moulds;

(g)  laying out lines and reference points on metal stock to
     guide other workers who cut, turn, mill, grind or otherwise
     shape metal;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Gunsmith
  Locksmith
  Toolmaker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator tool production - 8211

7432  WEAVERS, KNITTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

  
     Weavers, knitters and related workers spin and wind yarn by
hand, weave  materials on hand looms, make carpets by using a
knotting technique, knit  garment fabrics by hand or hand-
operated machine or perform similar  manufacturing tasks by hand
or hand-operated machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  spinning and winding yarn by hand;

(b)  drawing warp threads into loom by hand;

(c)  weaving plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpet or
     other fabrics on hand looms;

(d)  making carpets by using a knotting technique;

(e)  knitting garments and other articles on hand-operated
     machine or by hand;

(f)  crocheting or making braid by hand;

(g)  making nets by hand;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Knitter
  Spinner, thread and yarn
  Threader, loom
  Weaver, carpet
  Weaver cloth
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, knitting - 8262
  Machine-operator, weaving - 8262

7222  TOOL-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Tool-makers and related workers make and repair tools,
sports guns,  locks, dies, patterns and other metal articles, as
well as make engines or  machinery components, and parts thereof,
using hand and machine tools to work  metal to fine tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, maintaining and repairing dies, jigs, gauges and
     fixtures, using hand tools and various kinds of machine
     tools;

(b)  making engines or machinery components, and parts thereof;

(c)  fitting and assembling parts to make and repair jigs,
     fixtures and gauges;

(d)  repairing and modifying sports guns and other small arms;

(e)  making, fitting, assembling, repairing and installing lock
     parts and locks;

(f)  making and repairing metal patterns for preparation of
     foundry moulds;

(g)  laying out lines and reference points on metal stock to
     guide other workers who cut, turn, mill, grind or otherwise
     shape metal;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Gunsmith
  Locksmith
  Toolmaker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator tool production - 8211

7436  SEWERS, EMBROIDERERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Sewers, embroiderers and related workers sew together,
repair and  decorate garments, gloves and other products of
textile, fur, leather and  other materials by hand or by using
simple sewing machines, and perform  various related tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  performing various sewing tasks in making, altering and
     repairing articles of textile, leather and other materials;

(b)  embroidering decorative designs on garments or materials;

(c)  sewing sails, tents, awnings and similar articles;

(d)  assembling and covering umbrellas;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Embroiderer
  Maker, umbrella
  Sewer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Dressmaker - 7433
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, sewing - 8263

7416  TOBACCO PREPARERS AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Tobacco preparers and tobacco products makers prepare
tobacco leaves and  make various tobacco products.

     Tasks  include -

(a)  grading cured tobacco leaves by type, quality and locality
     where grown;

(b)  mixing tobacco leaves according to formula to obtain a blend
     of distinct flavour;

(c)  tending vacuum container which moistens tobacco for further
     processing;

(d)  removing midribs and stalks from tobacco leaves and
     shredding tobacco;

(e)  making cigars, cigarettes, snuff and other tobacco products
     by hand or with simple machines;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, tobacco
  Maker, cigar
  Maker, cigarette
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, cigar production - 8279
  Machine-operator, cigarette production - 8279

7222  TOOL-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Tool-makers and related workers make and repair tools,
sports guns,  locks, dies, patterns and other metal articles, as
well as make engines or  machinery components, and parts thereof,
using hand and machine tools to work  metal to fine tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, maintaining and repairing dies, jigs, gauges and
     fixtures, using hand tools and various kinds of machine
     tools;

(b)  making engines or machinery components, and parts thereof;

(c)  fitting and assembling parts to make and repair jigs,
     fixtures and gauges;

(d)  repairing and modifying sports guns and other small arms;

(e)  making, fitting, assembling, repairing and installing lock
     parts and locks;

(f)  making and repairing metal patterns for preparation of
     foundry moulds;

(g)  laying out lines and reference points on metal stock to
     guide other workers who cut, turn, mill, grind or otherwise
     shape metal;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Gunsmith
  Locksmith
  Toolmaker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator tool production - 8211

7436  SEWERS, EMBROIDERERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Sewers, embroiderers and related workers sew together,
repair and  decorate garments, gloves and other products of
textile, fur, leather and  other materials by hand or by using
simple sewing machines, and perform  various related tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  performing various sewing tasks in making, altering and
     repairing articles of textile, leather and other materials;

(b)  embroidering decorative designs on garments or materials;

(c)  sewing sails, tents, awnings and similar articles;

(d)  assembling and covering umbrellas;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Embroiderer
  Maker, umbrella
  Sewer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Dressmaker - 7433
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, sewing - 8263

7223    MACHINE-TOOL SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool setters and setter-operators set for operators,
or set and  operate, various machine tools working to fine
tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting one or more types of machine tools for operators to
     produce metal articles in standardised series;

(b)  setting and operating a variety of machine tools;

(c)  setting and operating particular types of metalworking
     machines, such as lathe, milling, planing, boring, drilling,
     grinding or honing machines, including multipurpose
     numerically controlled metalworking machines;

(d)  performing similar tasks when machining plastics and other
     metal substitutes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Setter, machine tool
  Setter-operator, drilling machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, grinding machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, lathe/metalworking
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, drilling/metal - 8211
  Machine-operator, grinding/metal 8211
  Machine-operator, machine tool - 8211

7436  SEWERS, EMBROIDERERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Sewers, embroiderers and related workers sew together,
repair and  decorate garments, gloves and other products of
textile, fur, leather and  other materials by hand or by using
simple sewing machines, and perform  various related tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  performing various sewing tasks in making, altering and
     repairing articles of textile, leather and other materials;

(b)  embroidering decorative designs on garments or materials;

(c)  sewing sails, tents, awnings and similar articles;

(d)  assembling and covering umbrellas;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Embroiderer
  Maker, umbrella
  Sewer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Dressmaker - 7433
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, sewing - 8263

7424  BASKETRY WEAVERS, BRUSH MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Basketry weavers, brush makers and related workers make
wicker furniture,  brushes and brooms and weave baskets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making wicker furniture from peeled and softened rattan,
     reeds, rushes, willow branches and similar materials;

(b)  making various kinds of baskets by interlacing osier,
     rattan, reeds, rushes or similar materials;

(c)  selecting and preparing brush materials, such as bristles,
     nylon, fibres and wire, and setting them in brush base;

(d)  selecting and preparing materials, such as broom corn, bass
     and whisker fibre, and fastening them to broom handles;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, basket
  Maker, brush
  Maker, furniture/wicker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, wooden articles 7331
  Machine-operator, woodworking - 8240

7436  SEWERS, EMBROIDERERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Sewers, embroiderers and related workers sew together,
repair and  decorate garments, gloves and other products of
textile, fur, leather and  other materials by hand or by using
simple sewing machines, and perform  various related tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  performing various sewing tasks in making, altering and
     repairing articles of textile, leather and other materials;

(b)  embroidering decorative designs on garments or materials;

(c)  sewing sails, tents, awnings and similar articles;

(d)  assembling and covering umbrellas;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Embroiderer
  Maker, umbrella
  Sewer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Dressmaker - 7433
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, sewing - 8263

7414  FRUIT, VEGETABLE AND RELATED PRESERVERS
 

     Fruit, vegetable and related preservers process or preserve
fruit, nuts  and related foods in various ways including cooking,
drying, salting, or juice  or oil extraction.

     Tasks include -

(a)  extracting juices from various fruits;

(b)  extracting oils from oil-bearing seeds, nuts or fruits;

(c)  cooking, salting or drying fruit, vegetables and related
     foods;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Expeller, oil
  Preserver, fruit
  Preserver, vegetable
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, canning/fruit - 8275
  Machine-operator, canning/vegetables - 8275

7312  MUSICAL-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND TUNERS
 

     Musical-instrument makers and tuners make, repair and tune
stringed, wind  or percussion instruments with hand or power
tools.

     Tasks include

(a)  making and repairing accordions, stringed and wind
     instruments;

(b)  building and repairing organs and making parts for such
     organs;

(c)  making instrumental parts of pianos and assembling and
     repairing such pianos;

(d)  tuning organs, pianos and other instruments;

(e)  making and repairing other musical instruments;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/musical (brass)
  Maker, instrument/musical (string)
  Maker, instrument/musical (woodwind)
  Tuner, musical instrument

7311  PRECISION-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND REPAIRERS

 

     Precision-instrument makers and repairers make and repair
mechanical  watches, clocks, nautical, meteorological, optical,
surgical, dental,  orthopaedic and other precision instruments
and equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, adjusting and repairing mechanical watches and
     clocks;

(b)  making, adjusting and repairing nautical and meteorological
     instruments and equipment;

(c)  making, adjusting and repairing optical instruments;

(d)  making, adjusting and repairing surgical instruments and
     other medical equipment;

(e)  making and repairing medical, orthopaedic and dental
     appliances and prostheses;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/meteorological
  Maker, instrument/surgical
  Maker, orthopaedic appliance
  Maker, watch
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, watch - 8283
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

7433  TAILORS, DRESSMAKERS AND HATTERS
 

     Tailors, dressmakers and hatters make suits, dresses and
other garments  from textile fabrics, leather or any other
material except fur, carry out  alterations and repairs, or make
hats, or participate in the manufacture of  ready-to-wear
garments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making overcoats, suits, skirts, shirts, blouses, lingerie,
     corsetry and similar garments often to clients' individual
     requirements;

(b)  participating in the manufacture of ready-to-wear clothing;

(c)  making hats;

(d)  altering, restyling and repairing garments;

(e)  making and caring for costumes used in theatrical,
     television and motion picture productions;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Dressmaker
  Milliner
  Tailor
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, sewing - 8263

7312  MUSICAL-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND TUNERS
 

     Musical-instrument makers and tuners make, repair and tune
stringed, wind  or percussion instruments with hand or power
tools.

     Tasks include

(a)  making and repairing accordions, stringed and wind
     instruments;

(b)  building and repairing organs and making parts for such
     organs;

(c)  making instrumental parts of pianos and assembling and
     repairing such pianos;

(d)  tuning organs, pianos and other instruments;

(e)  making and repairing other musical instruments;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/musical (brass)
  Maker, instrument/musical (string)
  Maker, instrument/musical (woodwind)
  Tuner, musical instrument

7412  BAKERS, PASTRY-COOKS AND CONFECTIONERY MAKERS
 

     Bakers, pastry-cooks and confectionery makers make various
kinds of  bread, cakes, and other flour products, as well as
handmade chocolate and  sugar confectionery.

     Tasks include  -

(a)  making bread, cakes, biscuits, pastries, pies and other
     flour products;

(b)  making handmade confectionery from mixtures of sugar,
     chocolate and other ingredients with the help of tools and
     some machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Baker
  Confectioner
  Maker, chocolate
 Pastry-cook
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cook - 5122
  Machine-operator, bakery products 8274
  Machine-operator, bread production 8274
  Machine-operator, chocolate production - 8274

7341  COMPOSITORS, TYPESETTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Compositors, typesetters and related workers set and arrange
printing  type by hand or machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting type by hand and printing copies with simple
     machines;

(b)  operating linotype, monotype and typecasting machines;

(c)  arranging set-up of type and spacing material and
     illustration blocks to make pages;

(d)  arranging pages in sequence for printing;

(e)  operating electronic key-boarding machines which enable
     characters to be converted into film, sensitised tape or
     paper for subsequent photo plate-making;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Compositor, printing
  Printer
  Typesetter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Press-operator, printing/cylinder 8251

8278  BREWERS, WINE AND OTHER BEVERAGE  MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Brewers, wine and other beverage machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which mix, press, or malt and ferment
grains and fruit to make malt  liquors, wine and other alcoholic
or non-alcoholic beverages, except fruit and  vegetable juices.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which process barley and
     other grains used in making distilled and malt liquors, and
     controlling the fermentation process,

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which process grapes and
     other fruit used in making wines, and controlling the
     fermentation process;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which increase or reduce the
     alcohol content of alcoholic beverages;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend wines and
     liquors to obtain desired tastes and flavours;
(e)  operating and monitoring machines which make non-alcoholic
     beverages, except fruit and vegetable juices;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Brewer
  Machine-operator, malting/spirits
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, fruit juice production - 8275
  Taster, wine - 7415

2211  BIOLOGISTS, BOTANISTS, ZOOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Biologists, botanists, zoologists and related professionals
conduct  research, improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and  apply scientific knowledge relating to
biology, microbiology, bacteriology,  cytology, genetics,
zoology, botany and ecology, especially in the fields of 
medicine and agriculture.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   conducting field and laboratory experiments concerning all
      forms of life by identifying and classifying human, animal,
      insect or plant specimens, and studying their origin,
      development, chemical and physical form, structure,
      composition, and life and reproductive processes;

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure, development and characteristics of micro-
      organisms such as bacteria or viruses;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the factors
      involved in the origin, development and transmission of
      hereditary characteristics in human beings, animals or
      plants;

(e)   studying all forms of plant life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(f)   studying all forms of animal life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(g)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure and functions of living cells, and the influence
      of physical and chemical factors upon normal and abnormal
      cells;

(h)   studying inter-relationships of animal and plant life and
      the environmental factors involved, and giving professional
      advice to related disciplines;

(i)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bacteriologist
  Biologist
  Botanist
  Ecologist
  Microbiologist
  Zoologist

1210  DIRECTORS AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES 
      Directors and chief executives head enterprises or
organisations (except  special interest organisations) and, with
the help of at least two other managers, determine and formulate
policies and plan, direct and  coordinate the general functioning
of the enterprise or organisation usually  within the guidelines
set up by a board of directors or a governing body, to  whom they
are answerable for the operations undertaken and results
obtained.

      Tasks include -

(a)   determining and formulating policies of the enterprise or
      organisation;

(b)   planning, directing and coordinating the general
      functioning of the enterprise or organisation;

(c)   determining and directing a particular policy, through
      consultation with subordinate managers;

(d)   reviewing the operations and results of the enterprise, or
      organisation, and reporting to governing bodies;

(e)   representing the enterprise or organisation in its dealings
      with outside bodies, including government or other
      authorities;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Chief executive, enterprise

Director-general, enterprise

Director-general, organisation

Managing director, enterprise

Managing director, organisation

President, organisation

5141  HAIRDRESSERS, BARBERS, BEAUTICIANS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Hairdressers, barbers, beauticians and related workers cut
and dress  hair, shave and trim beards, give beauty treatment,
apply cosmetics and  make-up and give other kinds of treatment
to individuals in order to improve their appearance.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting, washing, tinting and waving hair;

(b)  cutting and washing hair and shaving or trimming beards;

(c)  giving scalp treatment;

(d)  fitting wigs according to customers' requirements;

(e)  cleaning and applying creams, lotions and related products
     to face and parts of body;

(f)  giving facial and body massage;

(g)  applying make-up to clients of a beauty parlour;

(h)  applying make-up to actors and other performers;

(i)  cleaning, shaping and polishing finger and toe-nails and
     treating minor ailments of the human foot such as corns,
     calluses or deformed toe-nails;

(j)  attending to clients taking baths and administering
     elementary massage;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Attendant, bath
  Barber
  Beautician
  Chiropodist
  Hairdresser
  Manicurist

8122  METAL MELTERS, CASTERS AND ROLLING-MILL OPERATORS
 

     Metal melters, casters and rolling-mill operators operate
and monitor  rolling mills to roll metal, or furnaces to melt or
reheat metal, or machines  to cast metal.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring furnaces to melt ferrous and non-
     ferrous metal for casting;

(b)  operating and monitoring furnaces to reheat stock metal
     forms prior to forging, power-pressing, rolling and further
     processing;

(c)  operating and monitoring rolling mills to shape hot or cold
     steel into shapes for further processing, or into final
     shapes;

(d)  operating and monitoring rolling mills to reduce or form hot
     or cold non-ferrous metal to specified shapes, such as
     plate, sheet or foil;

(e)  operating and monitoring rolls to form seamless tubes and
     pipes from billets which have been pierced longitudinally;

(f)  pouring molten metal into moulds and operating and
     monitoring casting machines

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, melting/metal
  Machine-operator, casting/metal
  Operator, rolling mill/nonferrous metal

5210  FASHION AND OTHER MODELS
 
     Fashion and other models wear and display clothing and other
items for  sale or pose as models for advertising or for artistic
creation.

     Tasks include -

(a)  dressing in sample apparel of new or current styles or of
     type wanted by customer;

(b)  walking, turning and otherwise demonstrating style and other
     
     characteristics to best advantage;

(c)  posing as model for artistic photography, sculpture or
     painting;

(d)  posing as model for photography or films in the field of
     advertising;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Model, advertising
  Model, artist's
  Model, fashion

5142  COMPANIONS AND VALETS
 
     Companions and valets provide companionship and attend to
various  personal needs of the employer.

     Tasks include -

(a)  providing companionship to employer by accompanying him/her
     to various places, reading, conversing and participating in
     activities such as sports;

(b)  assisting in entertaining visitors in employer's home;

(c)  keeping wardrobe and personal effects of the employer in
     good order;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Companion
  Valet
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Escort, social - 5149
  Partner, dancing - 5149

2148 CARTOGRAPHERS AND SURVEYORS 
     Cartographers and surveyors apply surveying methods and
techniques to  determine the exact position of natural and
constructed features and  boundaries of land, seas, underground
areas and celestial bodies, and prepare  or revise digital,
graphic and pictorial representations.

     Tasks include:

(a)   surveying, measuring and describing land surfaces for
      various purposes, including mapmaking, construction work
or
      establishment of property boundaries;


(b)   surveying mines, delineating underground surfaces, noting
      exact position of various features and making charts and
      maps with a view to controlling direction and extent of
      mining;

(c)   surveying sea, river and lake beds, delineating underwater
      surfaces, noting exact position of various features and
      making charts and maps to be used in particular in
      determining navigable waters and channels and in planning
      construction of marine structures;

(d)   planning and conducting aerial photographic surveys;

(e)   analysing aerial and other photographs, remote sensing and
      surveying data to prepare and revise topographic maps and
      charts, utility maps and other thematic maps;

(f)   studying and advising on technical, aesthetic and economic
      aspects of map production;

(g)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Cartographer
  Photogrammetrist
  Surveyor, aerial
  Surveyor, hydrographic
  Surveyor, land
  Surveyor, mining

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Surveyor, marine: 3115
  Surveyor, quantity: 2149

7435  TEXTILE, LEATHER AND RELATED PATTERN-MAKERS AND CUTTERS
 

     Textile, leather and related pattern-makers and cutters make
patterns and  mark and cut textile, leather and other materials
in the manufacture of  garments, gloves and miscellaneous
products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  drawing and cutting out patterns for making suits, dresses,
     shirts, blouses, gloves, hats and caps and other garments;

(b)  making outlines of patterns on cloth, light leathers or
     other materials to guide cutting;

(c)  cutting material according to pattern outline for making up
     garments, gloves and related items;

(d)  performing pattern-making, marking and cutting tasks in the
     manufacture of other products such as soft furnishings,
     canvas goods and umbrellas;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cutter, garment
 Cutter, glove
  Pattern-maker, fur
  Pattern-maker, garment
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, pattern-making/ textiles - 8269

7323  GLASS ENGRAVERS AND ETCHERS
 

     Glass engravers and etchers engrave and etch designs on
glass articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  engraving monograms and ornamental designs on glassware;

(b)  etching decorative designs, calibration markings and other
     figures on glass articles;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cutter, crystal glass
  Engraver, glass
  Etcher, glass

7222  TOOL-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Tool-makers and related workers make and repair tools,
sports guns,  locks, dies, patterns and other metal articles, as
well as make engines or  machinery components, and parts thereof,
using hand and machine tools to work  metal to fine tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, maintaining and repairing dies, jigs, gauges and
     fixtures, using hand tools and various kinds of machine
     tools;

(b)  making engines or machinery components, and parts thereof;

(c)  fitting and assembling parts to make and repair jigs,
     fixtures and gauges;

(d)  repairing and modifying sports guns and other small arms;

(e)  making, fitting, assembling, repairing and installing lock
     parts and locks;

(f)  making and repairing metal patterns for preparation of
     foundry moulds;

(g)  laying out lines and reference points on metal stock to
     guide other workers who cut, turn, mill, grind or otherwise
     shape metal;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Gunsmith
  Locksmith
  Toolmaker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator tool production - 8211

7213  SHEET-METAL WORKERS
 

     Sheet-metal workers make, install and repair articles and
parts of  articles of sheet metal such as sheet steel, copper,
tin, brass, aluminium,  zinc or galvanised iron.

     Tasks include -

(a)  marking sheet metal for cutting and shaping;

(b)  making and repairing household utensils and other articles
     in tin, copper and light alloys, or ornamental articles and
     fittings;

(c)  making and repairing boilers, tanks, vats and similar
     containers;

(d)  installing and repairing sheet-metal parts of vehicles and
     aircraft;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Boiler smith
  Coppersmith
  Sheet-metal worker
  Tinsmith

7214  STRUCTURAL-METAL PREPARERS AND ERECTORS
 

     Structural-metal preparers and erectors shape, assemble and
erect heavy  metal girders and plates to form structures and
frameworks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  marking metal members as a guide when drilling, cutting, and
     shaping them for use in buildings, ships and other
     structures;

(b)  drilling, cutting and shaping structural steel in a
     workshop;

(c)  erecting steel members for buildings, bridges and other
     constructions;

(d)  assembling and erecting the framework and other metal parts
     of ships' structures;

(e)  shaping and fitting structural-steel plates of ships under
     construction or repair;

(f)  riveting structural-metal members by hand, machine or
     pneumatic riveter;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Erector, structural metal
  Preparer, structural metal
  Riveter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, rivet production 8211

6141  FORESTRY WORKERS AND LOGGERS
 
     Forestry workers and loggers carry out the necessary
operations to  cultivate, conserve and exploit forests, for sale
or delivery of forestry  products on a regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a) establishing and caring for forest stands;

(b)  locating trees to be felled and estimating volume of timber;

(c)  trimming, topping and felling trees and sawing them into
     logs;

(d)  shaping rough wooden products from logs at felling site;

(e)  stacking logs, loading them in chutes or floating them down
     rivers;

(f)  keeping watch to detect forest fires and participating in
     firefighting operations;

(g)  delivering or marketing forestry products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Climber, logging
  Cruiser, timber
  Feller-bucker, tree
  Forestry worker, skilled
  Logger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/forestry
        - 1221
  General manager, forestry - 1311
  Labourer, forestry - 9212
  Managing director, enterprise/forestry - 1210
  Operator, forestry machinery - 8331

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

6113  GARDENERS, HORTICULTURAL AND NURSERY GROWERS
 
     Gardeners, horticultural and nursery growers plan and carry
out the  necessary operations to grow vegetables by intensive
cultivation techniques,  to cultivate trees, shrubs, flowers and
other plants, and to produce saplings,  bulbs and seeds, for sale
or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers,  marketing
organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of vegetables, horticultural
     and nursery products to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, bulbs, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery-

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     growing vegetables by intensive cultivation, cultivating
     flowers, trees or bushes and harvesting crops;

(e)  producing saplings, bulbs and seeds;

(f)  cultivating flowers, trees, shrubs and other plants in parks
     or public or private gardens;

(g)  growing plants for exhibition or medicinal purposes;

(h)  delivering or marketing products;

(i)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(j)  tending working animals and maintaining buildings, machinery
     and equipment;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Cultivator, mushroom
  Farm worker, skilled/nursery
  Gardener
  Grower, horticultural nursery
  Horticultural grower
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

7113  STONE SPLITTERS, CUTTERS AND CARVERS
 



     Stone splitters, cutters and carvers break quarried stone
slabs or  blocks, or by using hand or hand-powered tools cut,
shape and finish stone for  building, ornamental, monumental and
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving wedges into quarried stone to break it into slabs
     or blocks;

(b)  selecting and grading slabs and blocks of granite, marble,
     and other stone;

(c)  cutting, shaping and finishing building and monumental stone
     such as granite or marble by using hand or hand-powered
     tools;

(d)  making patterns and marking shapes on stone for subsequent
     sawing, planing, drilling and other dressing and cutting
     operations;

(e)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     blocks used for monuments or memorials;

(f)  setting stone in the erection of monuments and memorials;

(g)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     used for decorative facings on buildings-

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carver, stone
  Cutter, stone
  Mason, monument
  Splitter, stone
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, carving/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, cutting/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, splitting/stone 8112
  Sculptor - 2452
  Stonemason, construction - 7122

7133  PLASTERERS
 

     Plasterers install and repair laths and apply plaster to
walls and  ceilings of buildings.

     Tasks include -

(a)  installing and repairing laths and applying one or more
     coats of plaster to interior walls and ceilings of buildings
     to produce finished surface;

(b)  moulding and installing ornamental plaster panels and
     casting and trimming ornamental plaster cornices;

(c)  applying protective and decorative covering of cement,
     plaster and similar materials to exterior building surfaces;

(d)  making and installing decorative plaster fixtures of fibrous
     plaster;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Plasterer
  Plasterer, ornamental
  Plasterer, stucco

3226  PHYSIOTHERAPISTS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Physiotherapists and related associate professionals treat
disorders of  bones, muscles and parts of the circulatory or the
nervous system by  manipulative methods, and ultrasound, heating,
laser or similar techniques, or  apply physiotherapy and related
therapies as part of the treatment for the physically disabled,
mentally ill or unbalanced.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising communities and individuals on correct body
      postures, for work or otherwise, to avoid injuries and
      strain and to strengthen muscles;


(b)   conducting examinations to make diagnoses of disorders of
      bones, muscles and parts of the circulatory or the nervous
      system to determine proper treatment or refer to Medical
      doctors, if necessary;

(c)   treating disorders of bones, muscles and parts of the
      circulatory or the nervous system by manipulative methods,
      and the use of ultrasound, heating, laser or similar
      techniques;

(d)   massaging client or patient to improve circulation, soothe
      or stimulate nerves, facilitate elimination of waste
      matter, stretch contracted tendons and produce other
      therapeutic effects;

(e)   examining body deformities and disorders to determine and
      write specifications for artificial limbs or other
      appliances, helping to fit them and explaining their use;

(f)   applying physiotherapy and related techniques as part of
      the treatment of the mentally ill or unbalanced;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Chiropractor
  Physiotherapist
  Podiatrist

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Therapist, occupational - 3229

1226  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS IN TRANSPORT,
STORAGE AND  COMMUNICATIONS 
      Production and operations department managers in transport,
storage and  communications plan, direct and coordinate those
activities of the enterprise  which are concerned with providing
relevant services, under the broad guidance  of the directors and
chief executives, and in consultation with managers of  other
departments or sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the provision of relevant services;

(b)   ensuring the efficient use of resources and the fulfilment
      of service quotas;

(c)   planning and directing daily service operations;

(d)   controlling expenditure;

(e)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(f)   overseeing the application of work safety and related
      procedures;

(g)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(h)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the enterprise or with outside bodies;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Department manager, production and
         operations/communications

Department manager, production and operations/storage

Department manager, production and operations/transport

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, storage - 1316

Managing director, enterprise/communications - 1210

Managing director, enterprise/transport - 1210

3142  SHIPS' DECK OFFICERS AND PILOTS 
     Ships' deck officers and pilots command and navigate ships
and similar  vessels, and perform related functions on shore.

     Tasks include -

(a)   commanding and navigating ship or similar vessel at sea or
      on inland waterways;

(b)   controlling and participating in deck and bridge-watch
      activities;

(c)   navigating vessels into and out of ports and through
      channels, straits and other waters where special knowledge
      is required;

(d)   ensuring safe loading and unloading of cargo and observance
      of safety regulations and procedures by crew and
      passengers'.

(e)   performing technical supervision of maintenance and repair
      of ship to ensure compliance with specifications and
      regulations;

(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices relating to
      ship's operation and navigation in order to identify and
      solve problems arising in the course of their work;

(g)   ordering ship's stores and recruiting crew as required and
      maintaining record of operations;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Captain ship/sea
  Pilot, ship
  Skipper, yacht

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Sailor - 8340

7434  FURRIERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Furriers and related workers make, alter, repair and restyle
garments and  other articles made of fur, or participate in the
manufacture of ready-to-wear  fur garments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  choosing, stretching and trimming dressed furs to conform
     to the chosen pattern outline of fur garments or other
     articles;

(b)  making coats, jackets and other fur garments and articles;

(c)  participation in the manufacture of ready-to-wear fur
     clothing;

(d)  reclaiming furs or skins from old coats, gluing fabric to
     interior of fur coats and trimming blocked fur garments;

(e)  altering, restyling and repairing fur garments and other fur
     articles;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furrier
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, sewing/fur - 8263

2121  MATHEMATICIANS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Mathematicians and related professionals conduct research
and improve or  develop mathematical and actuarial concepts,
theories and operational methods  and techniques and advise on
or engage in their practical application in such  fields as
engineering, business or medicine as well as in other areas of 
natural, social or life sciences.

     Tasks include:

(a)   studying, improving and developing mathematical and
      actuarial theories and techniques:.

(b)   advising on or applying mathematical principles, models and
      techniques to a wide range of tasks in the fields of
      engineering, agronomy and medicine, as well as in other
      areas of natural, social or life sciences;

(c)   conducting logical analyses of management problems,
      especially in terms of input-output effectiveness, and
      formulating mathematical models of each problem usually for
      programming and solution by computer;

(d)   designing and putting into operation pension schemes and
      life, health, social and other types of insurance systems-.

(e)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(f)   performing related tasks

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Actuary
  Analyst, operations research
  Mathematician, applied mathematics
  Mathematician, pure mathematics

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Assistant. actuarial: 3434
  Assistant, mathematical: 3434
  Clerk, actuarial: 4122
  Statistician, mathematical: 2122

2230  NURSING AND MIDWIFERY PROFESSIONALS 
     Nursing and midwifery professionals assist medical doctors
in their  tasks, deal with emergencies in their absence, and
provide professional  nursing care for the sick, injured,
physically and mentally disabled, and  others in need of such
care, or they de liver or assist in the delivery of  babies,
provide antenatal and post-natal care and instruct parents in
baby  care.

     Tasks include -

(a)   giving professional nursing care and treatment, either as
      curative or preventive measures, to ill, injured, disabled
      and other patients, and newborn babies and their mothers,
      in hospitals, clinics or other establishments;

(b)   assisting medical doctors in their tasks, dealing with
      emergencies and giving first-aid treatment in their
      absence;

(c)   administering medicine and drugs, applying surgical
      dressings and giving other forms of treatment prescribed
      by physicians;

(d)   supervising and coordinating the work of nursing and other
      non-medical staff in operating theatres and assisting
      surgeons during operations;

(e)   participating in preparations for physical and
      psychological treatment of mentally ill patients;

(f)   participating in preparations for social adjustment,
      development and education of mentally or physically
      handicapped patients;

(g)   giving profeSSional nursing care to patients in their own
      homes;

(h)   providing professional nursing services, care and advice
      within the community or at a workplace;

(i)   specialising in consultant services to schools, industry
      and other organisations;

(j)   checking on general health and progress of expectant
      mothers during pregnancy, and giving them professional
      advice and care;

(k)   delivering babies in normal births and assisting doctors
      with difficult deliveries;

(l)   attending mothers in the post-natal period to supervise
      their recovery, to check on babies' progress, and to
      instruct parents in baby care;

(m)   advising on and administering birth control methods;

(n)   performing related tasks;

(o)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Matron
  Midwife, professional
  Nurse, professional
  Sister, nursing/professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Aid, nursing/hospital - 5132
  Midwife, associate professional - 3232
  Nurse, associate professional - 3231

5121  HOUSEKEEPERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Housekeepers and related workers organise, supervise and
carry out  housekeeping functions in hotels, clubs, boarding
schools and other  enterprises and institutions and in private
households.

     Tasks include -

(a)  engaging, training, discharging organising and supervising
     workers employed as domestic staff;

(b)  purchasing or controlling the purchase of supplies;

(c)  controlling storage and issue of supplies;

(d)  supervising general welfare and conduct of individuals in
     institutions;

(e)  assisting in cases of minor injury or illness by performing
     tasks such as taking temperature, giving medicine, putting
     on bandages;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Housekeeper
  Matron, housekeeping
  Steward, house

1110  LEGISLATORS 
      Legislators determine, formulate, and direct policies of
national, state,  regional or local governments, and make,
ratify, amend or repeal laws, public  rules and regulations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   presiding over or participating in the proceedings of
      legislative bodies and administrative councils of national,
      state, regional or local governments or legislative
      assemblies;

(b)   determining, formulating, and directing policies of
      national, state, regional or local governments;

(c)   making, ratifying, amending or repealing laws, public rules
      and regulations within the framework of a Constitution
      determining their powers and fields of jurisdiction;

(d)   serving on government administrative boards or official
      committees;

(e)   promoting the interests of the constituencies which they
      represent;

(f)   as members of the government, directing senior
      administrators and officials of government departments and
      agencies in the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Minister, government

President, government

Prime minister

Secretary, government/legislative

Senator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Secretary, government/non legislative - 1120

7233  AGRICULTURAL- OR INDUSTRIAL-MACHINERY MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Agricultural- or industrial-machinery mechanics and fitters
fit, install,  examine, service and repair engines (except motor 
vehicle and aircraft  engines), agricultural  or industrial
machinery and mechanical equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, installing, examining, servicing and repairing
     engines (except motor vehicle and aircraft engines),
     agricultural or industrial machinery and mechanical
     equipment;

(b)  oiling and greasing stationary engines, machinery and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing new machinery and mechanical
     equipment for conformity with standards and specifications;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/marine
  Fitter, mining machinery
  Fitter, textile machinery
  Mechanic, construction machinery
  Mechanic, farm machinery
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/aircraft - 8281

7231  MOTOR VEHICLE MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Motor vehicle mechanics and fitters fit, install, maintain,
service and  repair engines and the mechanical and related
equipment of motor cycles,  passenger cars and delivery trucks
and other motor vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, examining, testing and servicing motor vehicle
     engines;

(b)  replacing engine components or complete engines;

(c)  fitting, examining, adjusting, dismantling, rebuilding and
     replacing defective parts of motor vehicles;

(d)  installing or adjusting motors and brakes, and adjusting
     steering or other parts of motor vehicles;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/motor-vehicle
  Mechanic, garage
  Mechanic, motor-vehicle
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/motor-vehicles - 8281

7233  AGRICULTURAL- OR INDUSTRIAL-MACHINERY MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Agricultural- or industrial-machinery mechanics and fitters
fit, install,  examine, service and repair engines (except motor 
vehicle and aircraft  engines), agricultural  or industrial
machinery and mechanical equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, installing, examining, servicing and repairing
     engines (except motor vehicle and aircraft engines),
     agricultural or industrial machinery and mechanical
     equipment;

(b)  oiling and greasing stationary engines, machinery and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing new machinery and mechanical
     equipment for conformity with standards and specifications;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/marine
  Fitter, mining machinery
  Fitter, textile machinery
  Mechanic, construction machinery
  Mechanic, farm machinery
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/aircraft - 8281

7311  PRECISION-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND REPAIRERS

 

     Precision-instrument makers and repairers make and repair
mechanical  watches, clocks, nautical, meteorological, optical,
surgical, dental,  orthopaedic and other precision instruments
and equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, adjusting and repairing mechanical watches and
     clocks;

(b)  making, adjusting and repairing nautical and meteorological
     instruments and equipment;

(c)  making, adjusting and repairing optical instruments;

(d)  making, adjusting and repairing surgical instruments and
     other medical equipment;

(e)  making and repairing medical, orthopaedic and dental
     appliances and prostheses;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/meteorological
  Maker, instrument/surgical
  Maker, orthopaedic appliance
  Maker, watch
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, watch - 8283
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

7233  AGRICULTURAL- OR INDUSTRIAL-MACHINERY MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Agricultural- or industrial-machinery mechanics and fitters
fit, install,  examine, service and repair engines (except motor 
vehicle and aircraft  engines), agricultural  or industrial
machinery and mechanical equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, installing, examining, servicing and repairing
     engines (except motor vehicle and aircraft engines),
     agricultural or industrial machinery and mechanical
     equipment;

(b)  oiling and greasing stationary engines, machinery and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing new machinery and mechanical
     equipment for conformity with standards and specifications;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/marine
  Fitter, mining machinery
  Fitter, textile machinery
  Mechanic, construction machinery
  Mechanic, farm machinery
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/aircraft - 8281

7241  ELECTRICAL MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Electrical mechanics and fitters fit, adjust, install and
repair  electrical machinery and other electrical apparatus and
equipment in  buildings, factories, workshops, or other places.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, adjusting and repairing various kinds of electrical
     machinery and motors, generators, switchgear and control
     apparatus, instruments, or electrical parts of elevators and
     related equipment;

(b)  fitting, adjusting and repairing electrical parts in
     domestic appliances, industrial machines and other
     appliances, or electrical apparatus in aircraft, ships and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing manufactured electrical products;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Builder, armature
  Fitter, electrical/generator
  Mechanic, electrical
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler electrical equipment - 8282

7243  ELECTRONICS MECHANICS AND SERVICERS
 

     Electronics mechanics and servicers service and repair radio
and  television equipment, tape recorders, video cassette
recorders, and other  audio-visual equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  examining radio or television equipment, tape recorders,
     video cassette recorders, and other audio-visual equipment,
     replacing defective parts and making adjustments and
     repairs;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Erector, radio aerial
  Mechanic, electronics/audiovisual equipment
  Servicer, electronics equipment

7232  AIRCRAFT ENGINE MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Aircraft engine mechanics and fitters fit, service, repair
and overhaul  aircraft engines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, examining, testing and servicing aircraft engines;

(b)  replacing engine components or complete engines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitters engine/aircraft
  Mechanic, engine/aircraft
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, textile machinery - 8281

7231  MOTOR VEHICLE MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Motor vehicle mechanics and fitters fit, install, maintain,
service and  repair engines and the mechanical and related
equipment of motor cycles,  passenger cars and delivery trucks
and other motor vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, examining, testing and servicing motor vehicle
     engines;

(b)  replacing engine components or complete engines;

(c)  fitting, examining, adjusting, dismantling, rebuilding and
     replacing defective parts of motor vehicles;

(d)  installing or adjusting motors and brakes, and adjusting
     steering or other parts of motor vehicles;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/motor-vehicle
  Mechanic, garage
  Mechanic, motor-vehicle
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/motor-vehicles - 8281

7233  AGRICULTURAL- OR INDUSTRIAL-MACHINERY MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Agricultural- or industrial-machinery mechanics and fitters
fit, install,  examine, service and repair engines (except motor 
vehicle and aircraft  engines), agricultural  or industrial
machinery and mechanical equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, installing, examining, servicing and repairing
     engines (except motor vehicle and aircraft engines),
     agricultural or industrial machinery and mechanical
     equipment;

(b)  oiling and greasing stationary engines, machinery and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing new machinery and mechanical
     equipment for conformity with standards and specifications;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/marine
  Fitter, mining machinery
  Fitter, textile machinery
  Mechanic, construction machinery
  Mechanic, farm machinery
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/aircraft - 8281

7231  MOTOR VEHICLE MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Motor vehicle mechanics and fitters fit, install, maintain,
service and  repair engines and the mechanical and related
equipment of motor cycles,  passenger cars and delivery trucks
and other motor vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, examining, testing and servicing motor vehicle
     engines;

(b)  replacing engine components or complete engines;

(c)  fitting, examining, adjusting, dismantling, rebuilding and
     replacing defective parts of motor vehicles;

(d)  installing or adjusting motors and brakes, and adjusting
     steering or other parts of motor vehicles;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/motor-vehicle
  Mechanic, garage
  Mechanic, motor-vehicle
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/motor-vehicles - 8281

7233  AGRICULTURAL- OR INDUSTRIAL-MACHINERY MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Agricultural- or industrial-machinery mechanics and fitters
fit, install,  examine, service and repair engines (except motor 
vehicle and aircraft  engines), agricultural  or industrial
machinery and mechanical equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, installing, examining, servicing and repairing
     engines (except motor vehicle and aircraft engines),
     agricultural or industrial machinery and mechanical
     equipment;

(b)  oiling and greasing stationary engines, machinery and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing new machinery and mechanical
     equipment for conformity with standards and specifications;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/marine
  Fitter, mining machinery
  Fitter, textile machinery
  Mechanic, construction machinery
  Mechanic, farm machinery
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/aircraft - 8281

7231  MOTOR VEHICLE MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Motor vehicle mechanics and fitters fit, install, maintain,
service and  repair engines and the mechanical and related
equipment of motor cycles,  passenger cars and delivery trucks
and other motor vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, examining, testing and servicing motor vehicle
     engines;

(b)  replacing engine components or complete engines;

(c)  fitting, examining, adjusting, dismantling, rebuilding and
     replacing defective parts of motor vehicles;

(d)  installing or adjusting motors and brakes, and adjusting
     steering or other parts of motor vehicles;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/motor-vehicle
  Mechanic, garage
  Mechanic, motor-vehicle
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/motor-vehicles - 8281

7233  AGRICULTURAL- OR INDUSTRIAL-MACHINERY MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Agricultural- or industrial-machinery mechanics and fitters
fit, install,  examine, service and repair engines (except motor 
vehicle and aircraft  engines), agricultural  or industrial
machinery and mechanical equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, installing, examining, servicing and repairing
     engines (except motor vehicle and aircraft engines),
     agricultural or industrial machinery and mechanical
     equipment;

(b)  oiling and greasing stationary engines, machinery and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing new machinery and mechanical
     equipment for conformity with standards and specifications;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/marine
  Fitter, mining machinery
  Fitter, textile machinery
  Mechanic, construction machinery
  Mechanic, farm machinery
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/aircraft - 8281

7231  MOTOR VEHICLE MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Motor vehicle mechanics and fitters fit, install, maintain,
service and  repair engines and the mechanical and related
equipment of motor cycles,  passenger cars and delivery trucks
and other motor vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, examining, testing and servicing motor vehicle
     engines;

(b)  replacing engine components or complete engines;

(c)  fitting, examining, adjusting, dismantling, rebuilding and
     replacing defective parts of motor vehicles;

(d)  installing or adjusting motors and brakes, and adjusting
     steering or other parts of motor vehicles;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/motor-vehicle
  Mechanic, garage
  Mechanic, motor-vehicle
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/motor-vehicles - 8281

7233  AGRICULTURAL- OR INDUSTRIAL-MACHINERY MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Agricultural- or industrial-machinery mechanics and fitters
fit, install,  examine, service and repair engines (except motor 
vehicle and aircraft  engines), agricultural  or industrial
machinery and mechanical equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, installing, examining, servicing and repairing
     engines (except motor vehicle and aircraft engines),
     agricultural or industrial machinery and mechanical
     equipment;

(b)  oiling and greasing stationary engines, machinery and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing new machinery and mechanical
     equipment for conformity with standards and specifications;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/marine
  Fitter, mining machinery
  Fitter, textile machinery
  Mechanic, construction machinery
  Mechanic, farm machinery
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/aircraft - 8281

7244  TELEGRAPH AND TELEPHONE INSTALLERS AND SERVICERS
 

     Telegraph and telephone installers and servicers install,
service and  repair telephone and telegraph equipment in central
sites or individual  locations.

     Tasks include -

(a)  installing, servicing and repairing telephone and telegraph
     equipment in central sites or individual locations;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Installer, telephone
  Mechanic, telegraph
  Servicer, telephone
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Fitter, electronics/telecommunications equipment - 7242

7233  AGRICULTURAL- OR INDUSTRIAL-MACHINERY MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Agricultural- or industrial-machinery mechanics and fitters
fit, install,  examine, service and repair engines (except motor 
vehicle and aircraft  engines), agricultural  or industrial
machinery and mechanical equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, installing, examining, servicing and repairing
     engines (except motor vehicle and aircraft engines),
     agricultural or industrial machinery and mechanical
     equipment;

(b)  oiling and greasing stationary engines, machinery and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing new machinery and mechanical
     equipment for conformity with standards and specifications;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/marine
  Fitter, mining machinery
  Fitter, textile machinery
  Mechanic, construction machinery
  Mechanic, farm machinery
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/aircraft - 8281

7231  MOTOR VEHICLE MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Motor vehicle mechanics and fitters fit, install, maintain,
service and  repair engines and the mechanical and related
equipment of motor cycles,  passenger cars and delivery trucks
and other motor vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, examining, testing and servicing motor vehicle
     engines;

(b)  replacing engine components or complete engines;

(c)  fitting, examining, adjusting, dismantling, rebuilding and
     replacing defective parts of motor vehicles;

(d)  installing or adjusting motors and brakes, and adjusting
     steering or other parts of motor vehicles;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/motor-vehicle
  Mechanic, garage
  Mechanic, motor-vehicle
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/motor-vehicles - 8281

7233  AGRICULTURAL- OR INDUSTRIAL-MACHINERY MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Agricultural- or industrial-machinery mechanics and fitters
fit, install,  examine, service and repair engines (except motor 
vehicle and aircraft  engines), agricultural  or industrial
machinery and mechanical equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, installing, examining, servicing and repairing
     engines (except motor vehicle and aircraft engines),
     agricultural or industrial machinery and mechanical
     equipment;

(b)  oiling and greasing stationary engines, machinery and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing new machinery and mechanical
     equipment for conformity with standards and specifications;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/marine
  Fitter, mining machinery
  Fitter, textile machinery
  Mechanic, construction machinery
  Mechanic, farm machinery
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/aircraft - 8281

2221  MEDICAL DOCTORS 
     Medical doctors conduct research, improve or develop
concepts, theories  and operational methods, and apply preventive
or curative measures.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research into human disorders and illnesses and
      preventive or curative methods;

(b)   conducting medical examinations and making diagnoses;

(c)   prescribing and giving treatment for diagnosed illnesses,
      disorders or injuries;

(d)   giving specialised medical or surgical treatment for
      particular types of illnesses, disorders or injuries;

(e)   giving advice on and applying preventive medicine methods
      and treatments;

(f)   participating in the development and implementation of
      public health laws and regulations for safeguarding and
      promoting the health of a community;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Doctor, medical
  Ophthalmologist
  Physician
  Psychiatrist
  Surgeon

1110  LEGISLATORS 
      Legislators determine, formulate, and direct policies of
national, state,  regional or local governments, and make,
ratify, amend or repeal laws, public  rules and regulations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   presiding over or participating in the proceedings of
      legislative bodies and administrative councils of national,
      state, regional or local governments or legislative
      assemblies;

(b)   determining, formulating, and directing policies of
      national, state, regional or local governments;

(c)   making, ratifying, amending or repealing laws, public rules
      and regulations within the framework of a Constitution
      determining their powers and fields of jurisdiction;

(d)   serving on government administrative boards or official
      committees;

(e)   promoting the interests of the constituencies which they
      represent;

(f)   as members of the government, directing senior
      administrators and officials of government departments and
      agencies in the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Minister, government

President, government

Prime minister

Secretary, government/legislative

Senator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Secretary, government/non legislative - 1120

1314  GENERAL MANAGERS IN WHOLESALE AND RETAIL TRADE 
      General managers in wholesale and retail trade head small
wholesale or  retail businesses and, on their own behalf or on
behalf of the proprietor,  plan, direct and coordinate the
activities of the business, with the  assistance of no more than
one other manager and some non-managerial help.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;


(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here':

 General manager, retail trade 

 General manager, wholesale trade 

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Department manager, production and operations/retail
         trade - 1224 

 Managing director, enterprise/wholesale trade -
         1210 

9151  MESSENGERS, PACKAGE AND LUGGAGE PORTERS AND DELIVERERS
 

     Messengers, package and luggage porters and deliverers carry
and deliver  messages, packages and other items within an
establishment or between  establishments, to households and
elsewhere, or carry luggage especially at  hotels, stations and
airports.

     Tasks include -

(a)  delivering messages, packages and other items within an
     establishment or between establishments, or elsewhere;

(b)  performing the duties of a post-runner;

(c)  delivering various goods to and from enterprises, shops,
     households and other places;

(d)  carrying and delivering luggage at hotels, stations,
     airports, and elsewhere;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Deliverer, hand/newspapers
  Messenger
  Porter, luggage
  Post-runner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Postman - 4142
  Postwoman - 4142

2147  MINING ENGINEERS, METALLURGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Mining engineers, metallurgists and related professionals
conduct  research, design and develop and maintain commercial-
scale methods of  extracting metals from their ores, or minerals,
water, oil or gas from the  earth and of developing new alloys,
ceramic and other materials, or study and  advise on
technological aspects of particular materials, products or
processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and advising on, designing and
      developing new or improved methods to deal with engineering
      aspects of mining and oil, gas or water extraction;

(b)   determining most suitable methods of efficient mining and
      extraction, types of machinery to be used, planning layout
      and directing construction of shafts and tunnels;

(c)   determining drilling site and devising methods of
      controlling the flow of water, oil or gas from wells;

(d)   planning and directing storage, initial treatment and
      transportation of water, oil or gas;

(e)   establishing safety standards and procedures and first-aid
      facilities, especially underground;

(f)   conducting research, developing methods of extracting
      metals from their ores and advising on their application;

(g)   investigating properties of metals and alloys, developing
      new alloys and advising on and supervising technical
      aspects of metal and alloy manufacture and processing;

(h)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials or processes;

(i)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists in particular with geologists and
      geophysicists;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, mining
  Engineer, mining/coal
  Engineer, mining/metal
  Engineer, mining/petroleum and natural gas
  Metallurgist, extractive
  Technologist, extractive

2112  METEOROLOGISTS 
     Meteorologists conduct research, improve or develop
concepts, theories  and operational methods related to the
composition, structure and dynamics of  the atmosphere, and
prepare detailed or long-term weather forecasts used in 
aviation, shipping, agriculture and other areas and for the
information of the  general public.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods related to the
      composition, structure and dynamics of the atmosphere;

(b)   investigating direction and speed of air movements,
      pressures, temperatures, humidity and other phenomena such
      as cloud formation and precipitation, electrical
      disturbances or solar radiation;

(c)   studying data collected from weather stations, preparing
      detailed or long term weather maps and forecasts used in
      aviation, shipping, agriculture and other areas and for the
      information of the general public;

(d)   conducting experiments in fog dispersal, rain-making and
      other types of weather control;

(e)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(f)   performing related tasks;



(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Climatologist
  Forecaster, weather

  Meteorologist


9153  VENDING-MACHINE MONEY COLLECTORS, METER READERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Vending-machine money collectors, meter readers and related
workers stock  vending machines and collect money from them or
from parking meters and other  coin-boxes, or read electricity,
gas or water meters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  filling storage areas of vending machines and collecting
     money from their containers;

(b)  collecting money from parking meters and similar coin-boxes;

(c)  reading electricity, gas or water meters and recording
     consumption;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Collector, vending machine
  Meter reader

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

2211  BIOLOGISTS, BOTANISTS, ZOOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Biologists, botanists, zoologists and related professionals
conduct  research, improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and  apply scientific knowledge relating to
biology, microbiology, bacteriology,  cytology, genetics,
zoology, botany and ecology, especially in the fields of 
medicine and agriculture.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   conducting field and laboratory experiments concerning all
      forms of life by identifying and classifying human, animal,
      insect or plant specimens, and studying their origin,
      development, chemical and physical form, structure,
      composition, and life and reproductive processes;

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure, development and characteristics of micro-
      organisms such as bacteria or viruses;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the factors
      involved in the origin, development and transmission of
      hereditary characteristics in human beings, animals or
      plants;

(e)   studying all forms of plant life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(f)   studying all forms of animal life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(g)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure and functions of living cells, and the influence
      of physical and chemical factors upon normal and abnormal
      cells;

(h)   studying inter-relationships of animal and plant life and
      the environmental factors involved, and giving professional
      advice to related disciplines;

(i)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bacteriologist
  Biologist
  Botanist
  Ecologist
  Microbiologist
  Zoologist

2114  GEOLOGISTS AND GEOPHYSICISTS 
     Geologists and geophysicists conduct research, improve or
develop  concepts, theories and operational methods, or apply
scientific knowledge  relating to geology and geophysics in such
fields as oil, gas and mineral  exploitation, water conservation,
civil engineering, telecommunications and  navigation.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods related to geology and
      geophysics;

(b)   studying composition and structure of the earth's crust,
      examining rocks, minerals, fossil remains, etc., to
      determine processes affecting the development of the earth,
      trace evolution of past life and establish nature and
      chronology of geological formations;

(c)   interpreting research data and preparing geological
      reports, maps, charts and diagrams;

(d)   applying results of research to assess development
      potential of mineral, gas and oil deposits and underground
      water resources;

(e)   applying geological knowledge to problems encountered in
      civil engineering projects such as the construction of
      dams, bridges, tunnels and large buildings;

(f)   investigating and measuring seismic, gravitational,
      electrical, thermal and magnetic forces affecting the
      earth;

(g)   investigating and measuring optical and acoustic phenomena
      in the atmosphere;

(h)   estimating weight, size and mass of the earth and
      composition and structure of its interior, and studying the
      nature and activity of volcanoes, glaciers and earthquakes;

(i)   charting the earth's magnetic field and applying this and
      other collected data for purposes of broadcasting and
      navigation;

(j)   studying and measuring physical properties of seas and the
      atmosphere and their inter-relationship, such as the
      exchange of thermal energy;

(k)   locating and determining the nature and extent of oil, gas
      and mineral deposits and of ground-water resources, using
      seismological, gravimetric, magnetic, electrical or
      radiometric methods;

(l)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(m)   performing related tasks;

(n)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Geologist
  Geophysicist

3131  PHOTOGRAPHERS AND IMAGE AND SOUND RECORDING EQUIPMENT
OPERATORS 
     Photographers and image and sound recording equipment
operators take  photographs, control motion picture and video
cameras and other equipment to  record and edit images and sound.

 
    Tasks include -

(a)   taking photographs for advertising, or other commercial,
      industrial or scientific purposes and to illustrate stories
      and articles in newspapers, magazines and other
      publications;

(b)   taking portrait photographs of persons and groups of
      persons;

(c)   setting and operating motion picture, video, microscopic
      and other specialised cameras, including those for aerial
      photography, to record images;

(d)   controlling equipment to record sound for motion pictures,
      videotapes, gramophone records, audio tapes, digital discs,
      direct broadcasting or other purposes.,

(e)   controlling equipment to edit and mix image and sound
      recordings to ensure satisfactory quality and to create
      special image and sound effects;

(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of image and
      sound recording and editing in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, camera/motion picture
  Operator, recording equipment/sound
  Operator, studio equipment/television
  Photographer

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Mechanic, electronics - 7243
  Photographer, photogravure - 7343
  Photolithographer - 7343
  Repairer, photographic equipment 7311

3232  MIDWIFERY ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Midwifery associate professionals deliver or assist doctors
or midwifery  professionals in the delivery of babies, provide
antenatal and post-natal care  and instruct parents in baby care.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising expectant mothers on appropriate diet, exercises
      and behaviour to ease pregnancy and childbirth, and noting
      their general health and progress;

(b)   delivering babies, or, more often, assisting doctors or
      midwifery professionals in deliveries;

(c)   attending mothers in the post-natal period to supervise
      their recovery, to check on babies' progress, and to
      instruct parents in baby care;

(d)   advising on and administering birth control methods;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Midwife, associate professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Midwife, professional - 2230

2230  NURSING AND MIDWIFERY PROFESSIONALS 
     Nursing and midwifery professionals assist medical doctors
in their  tasks, deal with emergencies in their absence, and
provide professional  nursing care for the sick, injured,
physically and mentally disabled, and  others in need of such
care, or they de liver or assist in the delivery of  babies,
provide antenatal and post-natal care and instruct parents in
baby  care.

     Tasks include -

(a)   giving professional nursing care and treatment, either as
      curative or preventive measures, to ill, injured, disabled
      and other patients, and newborn babies and their mothers,
      in hospitals, clinics or other establishments;

(b)   assisting medical doctors in their tasks, dealing with
      emergencies and giving first-aid treatment in their
      absence;

(c)   administering medicine and drugs, applying surgical
      dressings and giving other forms of treatment prescribed
      by physicians;

(d)   supervising and coordinating the work of nursing and other
      non-medical staff in operating theatres and assisting
      surgeons during operations;

(e)   participating in preparations for physical and
      psychological treatment of mentally ill patients;

(f)   participating in preparations for social adjustment,
      development and education of mentally or physically
      handicapped patients;

(g)   giving profeSSional nursing care to patients in their own
      homes;

(h)   providing professional nursing services, care and advice
      within the community or at a workplace;

(i)   specialising in consultant services to schools, industry
      and other organisations;

(j)   checking on general health and progress of expectant
      mothers during pregnancy, and giving them professional
      advice and care;

(k)   delivering babies in normal births and assisting doctors
      with difficult deliveries;

(l)   attending mothers in the post-natal period to supervise
      their recovery, to check on babies' progress, and to
      instruct parents in baby care;

(m)   advising on and administering birth control methods;

(n)   performing related tasks;

(o)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Matron
  Midwife, professional
  Nurse, professional
  Sister, nursing/professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Aid, nursing/hospital - 5132
  Midwife, associate professional - 3232
  Nurse, associate professional - 3231

7433  TAILORS, DRESSMAKERS AND HATTERS
 

     Tailors, dressmakers and hatters make suits, dresses and
other garments  from textile fabrics, leather or any other
material except fur, carry out  alterations and repairs, or make
hats, or participate in the manufacture of  ready-to-wear
garments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making overcoats, suits, skirts, shirts, blouses, lingerie,
     corsetry and similar garments often to clients' individual
     requirements;

(b)  participating in the manufacture of ready-to-wear clothing;

(c)  making hats;

(d)  altering, restyling and repairing garments;

(e)  making and caring for costumes used in theatrical,
     television and motion picture productions;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Dressmaker
  Milliner
  Tailor
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, sewing - 8263

7233  AGRICULTURAL- OR INDUSTRIAL-MACHINERY MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Agricultural- or industrial-machinery mechanics and fitters
fit, install,  examine, service and repair engines (except motor 
vehicle and aircraft  engines), agricultural  or industrial
machinery and mechanical equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, installing, examining, servicing and repairing
     engines (except motor vehicle and aircraft engines),
     agricultural or industrial machinery and mechanical
     equipment;

(b)  oiling and greasing stationary engines, machinery and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing new machinery and mechanical
     equipment for conformity with standards and specifications;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/marine
  Fitter, mining machinery
  Fitter, textile machinery
  Mechanic, construction machinery
  Mechanic, farm machinery
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/aircraft - 8281

4141  LIBRARY AND FILING CLERKS
 
     Library and filing clerks maintain library services or
perform duties  related to the filing and classification of
records.
     Tasks include -
     
(a)  maintaining library records relating to the acquisition,
     issue and return of books and other publications;
(b)  photocopying or reproducing documents and other records;
(c)  classifying and systematically filing papers, documents and
     other records;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, filing
  Clerk, library

7111  MINERS AND QUARRY WORKERS
 

     Miners and quarry workers extract solid minerals from
underground or  surface mines or quarries.

     Tasks include -

(a)  extracting coal, ores and other solid minerals from
     underground or surface mines;

(b)  extracting granite, limestone, slate, flint or other kinds
     of rocks from quarries;

(c)  setting and operating machines which cut channels or drill
     blasting holes into the open face of mines or quarries;

(d)  cutting, fitting and installing wood or steel props, pillars
     and arches to support walls and roof of underground
     workings;

(e)  collecting samples of coal or ore for laboratory analysis;

(f)  extracting chalk, clay, gravel or sand from open pits;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Miner
  Quarrier
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, drilling/mine - 8111
  Machine-operator, mining/continuous - 8111

2114  GEOLOGISTS AND GEOPHYSICISTS 
     Geologists and geophysicists conduct research, improve or
develop  concepts, theories and operational methods, or apply
scientific knowledge  relating to geology and geophysics in such
fields as oil, gas and mineral  exploitation, water conservation,
civil engineering, telecommunications and  navigation.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods related to geology and
      geophysics;

(b)   studying composition and structure of the earth's crust,
      examining rocks, minerals, fossil remains, etc., to
      determine processes affecting the development of the earth,
      trace evolution of past life and establish nature and
      chronology of geological formations;

(c)   interpreting research data and preparing geological
      reports, maps, charts and diagrams;

(d)   applying results of research to assess development
      potential of mineral, gas and oil deposits and underground
      water resources;

(e)   applying geological knowledge to problems encountered in
      civil engineering projects such as the construction of
      dams, bridges, tunnels and large buildings;

(f)   investigating and measuring seismic, gravitational,
      electrical, thermal and magnetic forces affecting the
      earth;

(g)   investigating and measuring optical and acoustic phenomena
      in the atmosphere;

(h)   estimating weight, size and mass of the earth and
      composition and structure of its interior, and studying the
      nature and activity of volcanoes, glaciers and earthquakes;

(i)   charting the earth's magnetic field and applying this and
      other collected data for purposes of broadcasting and
      navigation;

(j)   studying and measuring physical properties of seas and the
      atmosphere and their inter-relationship, such as the
      exchange of thermal energy;

(k)   locating and determining the nature and extent of oil, gas
      and mineral deposits and of ground-water resources, using
      seismological, gravimetric, magnetic, electrical or
      radiometric methods;

(l)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(m)   performing related tasks;

(n)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Geologist
  Geophysicist

1110  LEGISLATORS 
      Legislators determine, formulate, and direct policies of
national, state,  regional or local governments, and make,
ratify, amend or repeal laws, public  rules and regulations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   presiding over or participating in the proceedings of
      legislative bodies and administrative councils of national,
      state, regional or local governments or legislative
      assemblies;

(b)   determining, formulating, and directing policies of
      national, state, regional or local governments;

(c)   making, ratifying, amending or repealing laws, public rules
      and regulations within the framework of a Constitution
      determining their powers and fields of jurisdiction;

(d)   serving on government administrative boards or official
      committees;

(e)   promoting the interests of the constituencies which they
      represent;

(f)   as members of the government, directing senior
      administrators and officials of government departments and
      agencies in the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Minister, government

President, government

Prime minister

Secretary, government/legislative

Senator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Secretary, government/non legislative - 1120

2460  RELIGIOUS PROFESSIONALS 
      
     Religious professionals function as perpetrators of the
sacred  traditions, practices and beliefs and celebrate or
administer at the rituals  of initiation, preside over ritual
reenactments of creative, redemptive or  salvatory events, and
offer sacrifices to the gods or to one God.

     Tasks include -

(a)   perpetuating sacred traditions, practices and beliefs;

(d)   conducting religious services, rites and ceremonies;

(c)   undertaking various administrative and social duties,
      including a ending committees and meetings of religious
      organisations;

(d)   providing spiritual and moral guidance in accordance with
      the religion professed;

(e)   propagating religious doctrines in own country or abroad;

(f)   preparing religious sermons and preachings;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bonze
  Imam
  Minister, religion
  Monk, professional
  Nun, professional
  Poojari
  Priest
  Rabbi

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Monk, associate professional - 3480
  Nun, associate professional - 3480
  Preacher, lay - 3480

7412  BAKERS, PASTRY-COOKS AND CONFECTIONERY MAKERS
 

     Bakers, pastry-cooks and confectionery makers make various
kinds of  bread, cakes, and other flour products, as well as
handmade chocolate and  sugar confectionery.

     Tasks include  -

(a)  making bread, cakes, biscuits, pastries, pies and other
     flour products;

(b)  making handmade confectionery from mixtures of sugar,
     chocolate and other ingredients with the help of tools and
     some machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Baker
  Confectioner
  Maker, chocolate
 Pastry-cook
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cook - 5122
  Machine-operator, bakery products 8274
  Machine-operator, bread production 8274
  Machine-operator, chocolate production - 8274

7123  CONCRETE PLACERS, CONCRETE FINISHERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Concrete placers, concrete finishers and related workers
erect reinforced  concrete frameworks and structures, make forms
for moulding concrete,  reinforce concrete surfaces, cement
openings in walls or casings for wells,  finish and repair cement
surfaces and carry out terrazzo work.
     
     Tasks include -

(a)  constructing and repairing reinforced concrete floors,
     walls, tanks, silos and other concrete structures;

(b)  making shuttering or assembling prefabricated forms for
     moulding concrete;

(c)  cementing openings in walls or casings for wells;

(d)  finishing and smoothing surfaces of concrete structures;

(e)  applying a durable, smooth surfacing composed of cement,
     sand pigment and marble particles to floors, known as a
     terrazzo finish;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Finisher, cement
  Placer, concrete
  Terrazzo worker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, finishing/concrete 8212
  Operator, road surface laying machinery - 8332

7412  BAKERS, PASTRY-COOKS AND CONFECTIONERY MAKERS
 

     Bakers, pastry-cooks and confectionery makers make various
kinds of  bread, cakes, and other flour products, as well as
handmade chocolate and  sugar confectionery.

     Tasks include  -

(a)  making bread, cakes, biscuits, pastries, pies and other
     flour products;

(b)  making handmade confectionery from mixtures of sugar,
     chocolate and other ingredients with the help of tools and
     some machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Baker
  Confectioner
  Maker, chocolate
 Pastry-cook
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cook - 5122
  Machine-operator, bakery products 8274
  Machine-operator, bread production 8274
  Machine-operator, chocolate production - 8274

7416  TOBACCO PREPARERS AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Tobacco preparers and tobacco products makers prepare
tobacco leaves and  make various tobacco products.

     Tasks  include -

(a)  grading cured tobacco leaves by type, quality and locality
     where grown;

(b)  mixing tobacco leaves according to formula to obtain a blend
     of distinct flavour;

(c)  tending vacuum container which moistens tobacco for further
     processing;

(d)  removing midribs and stalks from tobacco leaves and
     shredding tobacco;

(e)  making cigars, cigarettes, snuff and other tobacco products
     by hand or with simple machines;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, tobacco
  Maker, cigar
  Maker, cigarette
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, cigar production - 8279
  Machine-operator, cigarette production - 8279

7412  BAKERS, PASTRY-COOKS AND CONFECTIONERY MAKERS
 

     Bakers, pastry-cooks and confectionery makers make various
kinds of  bread, cakes, and other flour products, as well as
handmade chocolate and  sugar confectionery.

     Tasks include  -

(a)  making bread, cakes, biscuits, pastries, pies and other
     flour products;

(b)  making handmade confectionery from mixtures of sugar,
     chocolate and other ingredients with the help of tools and
     some machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Baker
  Confectioner
  Maker, chocolate
 Pastry-cook
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cook - 5122
  Machine-operator, bakery products 8274
  Machine-operator, bread production 8274
  Machine-operator, chocolate production - 8274

7416  TOBACCO PREPARERS AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Tobacco preparers and tobacco products makers prepare
tobacco leaves and  make various tobacco products.

     Tasks  include -

(a)  grading cured tobacco leaves by type, quality and locality
     where grown;

(b)  mixing tobacco leaves according to formula to obtain a blend
     of distinct flavour;

(c)  tending vacuum container which moistens tobacco for further
     processing;

(d)  removing midribs and stalks from tobacco leaves and
     shredding tobacco;

(e)  making cigars, cigarettes, snuff and other tobacco products
     by hand or with simple machines;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, tobacco
  Maker, cigar
  Maker, cigarette
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, cigar production - 8279
  Machine-operator, cigarette production - 8279

5210  FASHION AND OTHER MODELS
 
     Fashion and other models wear and display clothing and other
items for  sale or pose as models for advertising or for artistic
creation.

     Tasks include -

(a)  dressing in sample apparel of new or current styles or of
     type wanted by customer;

(b)  walking, turning and otherwise demonstrating style and other
     
     characteristics to best advantage;

(c)  posing as model for artistic photography, sculpture or
     painting;

(d)  posing as model for photography or films in the field of
     advertising;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Model, advertising
  Model, artist's
  Model, fashion

7321  ABRASIVE WHEEL FORMERS, POTTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Abrasive wheel formers, potters and related workers make
pottery,  porcelain ware, bricks, tiles and abrasive wheels.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making articles of pottery and porcelain;

(b)  making clay or plaster-of-Paris moulds;

(c)  forming articles on potter's wheel with hands, or using
     interior or exterior moulding shapes and shaping tools;

(d)  forming articles by casting semi-liquid clay in plaster-of-
     Paris moulds;

(e)  forming bricks and tiles into special shapes by hand;

(f)  making articles by pressing plastic clay into moulds by
     hand;

(g)  operating screw-press or hydraulic press to make products
     from clay dust;

(h)  operating a machine which extrudes moist clay for further
     processing;

(i)  forming abrasive wheels by moulding and pressing abrasive
     mixture;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Caster, pottery and porcelain
  Modeller, pottery and porcelain
  Potter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln operator, brick and tile - 8131
  Kiln operator, pottery and porcelain 8131

2452  SCULPTORS, PAINTERS AND RELATED ARTISTS 
     Sculptors, painters and related artists create and execute
works of art  by sculpting, painting, drawing, creating cartoons,
engraving or using related  techniques.

     Tasks include -

(a)   creating representational or abstract three-dimensional or
      relief forms by shaping and combining materials such as
      wood, stone, clay or metal;

(b)   creating representational or abstract drawings and
      paintings using pencils, ink, chalk, oil paints, water
      colours or through the application of other techniques;

(c)   creating drawings and engraving or etching them on metal,
      wood, or other materials;

(d)   creating cartoons to depict persons and events, often in
      caricature;

(e)   creating and executing designs and illustrations for books,
      magazines, advertising and similar purposes;

(f)   restoring damaged, soiled and faded paintings and other art
      objects;

(g)   painting miniatures;

(h)   per-forming related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Artist, commercial
  Cartoonist
  Engraver-etcher, artistic
  Painter, portrait
  Restorer, picture
  Sculptor

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Designer, industrial products - 3471

4212  TELLERS AND OTHER COUNTER CLERKS
 
     Tellers and other counter clerks deal directly with clients
of banks or  post offices in connection with receiving, changing
and paying out money, or  providing mail services.
     Tasks include -

(a)  receiving money or cheques from clients;
(b)  paying out money to clients;
(c)  paying bills and making money transfers on clients' behalf;
(d)  crediting and debiting clients' accounts;
(e)  changing money from one currency to another, as requested
     by clients;
(f)  making records of all transactions and reconciling them with
     cash balance;
(g)  receiving mail, selling postage stamps and conducting other
     post office counter business such as bill payments, money
     transfers and related business;
(h)  performing related tasks;
(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, post office counter
  Money changer
  Teller, bank

4214  PAWNBROKERS AND MONEYLENDERS
 
     Pawnbrokers and money-lenders lend money against articles
deposited as  pledges, or against property or other security.
     Tasks include -

(a)  evaluating articles offered as pledges, calculating
     interest, and lending money;
(b)  returning articles when the loan is paid or, in the event
     of non-payment, selling pledged articles;
(c)  lending money as personal loans against success of future
     harvest and other similar undertakings;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Money-lender
  Pawnbroker

3480  RELIGIOUS ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Religious associate professionals undertake religious works,
devote their  lives to contemplative prayer or meditation, and
preach and propagate the  teachings of their particular religion.     Tasks include -

(a)   undertaking religious works;

(b)   living as a member of a separate community, and observing
      its rules and practices;

(c)   devoting their lives to contemplative prayer or meditation;

(d)   preaching and propagating the teachings of a particular
      religious faith;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Monk, associate professional
  Nun, associate professional
  Preacher, lay
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Bonze - 2460	
  Imam - 2460
  Minister, religion - 2460
  Monk, professional - 2460
  Nun, professional - 2460
  Poojari - 2460
  Priest - 2460
  Rabbi- 2460

2460  RELIGIOUS PROFESSIONALS 
      
     Religious professionals function as perpetrators of the
sacred  traditions, practices and beliefs and celebrate or
administer at the rituals  of initiation, preside over ritual
reenactments of creative, redemptive or  salvatory events, and
offer sacrifices to the gods or to one God.

     Tasks include -

(a)   perpetuating sacred traditions, practices and beliefs;

(d)   conducting religious services, rites and ceremonies;

(c)   undertaking various administrative and social duties,
      including a ending committees and meetings of religious
      organisations;

(d)   providing spiritual and moral guidance in accordance with
      the religion professed;

(e)   propagating religious doctrines in own country or abroad;

(f)   preparing religious sermons and preachings;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bonze
  Imam
  Minister, religion
  Monk, professional
  Nun, professional
  Poojari
  Priest
  Rabbi

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Monk, associate professional - 3480
  Nun, associate professional - 3480
  Preacher, lay - 3480

7341  COMPOSITORS, TYPESETTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Compositors, typesetters and related workers set and arrange
printing  type by hand or machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting type by hand and printing copies with simple
     machines;

(b)  operating linotype, monotype and typecasting machines;

(c)  arranging set-up of type and spacing material and
     illustration blocks to make pages;

(d)  arranging pages in sequence for printing;

(e)  operating electronic key-boarding machines which enable
     characters to be converted into film, sensitised tape or
     paper for subsequent photo plate-making;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Compositor, printing
  Printer
  Typesetter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Press-operator, printing/cylinder 8251

2444  PHILOLOGISTS, TRANSLATORS AND INTERPRETERS 
     Philologists, translators and interpreters study the origin,
development  and structure of languages, and translate or
interpret from one language into  another.

     Tasks include -

(a)   studying relationships between ancient parent languages and
      modern language groups, tracing the origin and evolution
of
      words, grammar and language forms, and presenting findings;

(b)   advising on or preparing language classification systems,
      grammars, dictionaries and similar materials;

(c)   translating from one language into another and ensuring
      that the correct meaning of the original is retained, that
      legal, technical or scientific works are correctly
      rendered, and that the phraseology and terminology of the
      spirit and style of literary works are conveyed as far as
      possible;

(d)   develop methods for the use of computers and other
      instruments to improve productivity and quality of
      translations;

(e)   interpreting from one language into another, in particular
      at conferences, meetings and similar occasions, and
      ensuring that the correct meaning and, as far as possible,
      the spirit of the original are transmitted;

(f)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Interpreter
  Lexicographer
   Philologist
  Translator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Editor - 2451

5143  UNDERTAKERS AND EMBALMERS
 
     Undertakers and embalmers perform various tasks in the
disposal of dead  human bodies.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making arrangements for, and conducting, funerals,
     cremations and burials;

(b)  embalming human bodies to retard or arrest the process of
     decay;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Embalmer
  Undertaker

8321  MOTOR-CYCLE DRIVERS
 

     Motor-cycle drivers drive and tend motor cycles or motorised
tricycles  equipped to transport materials, goods or passengers.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending motor cycle or motorised tricycle to
     transport materials, goods and passengers;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Dispatch rider
  Motor-cyclist
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Driver, pedal vehicle - 9331

7321  ABRASIVE WHEEL FORMERS, POTTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Abrasive wheel formers, potters and related workers make
pottery,  porcelain ware, bricks, tiles and abrasive wheels.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making articles of pottery and porcelain;

(b)  making clay or plaster-of-Paris moulds;

(c)  forming articles on potter's wheel with hands, or using
     interior or exterior moulding shapes and shaping tools;

(d)  forming articles by casting semi-liquid clay in plaster-of-
     Paris moulds;

(e)  forming bricks and tiles into special shapes by hand;

(f)  making articles by pressing plastic clay into moulds by
     hand;

(g)  operating screw-press or hydraulic press to make products
     from clay dust;

(h)  operating a machine which extrudes moist clay for further
     processing;

(i)  forming abrasive wheels by moulding and pressing abrasive
     mixture;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Caster, pottery and porcelain
  Modeller, pottery and porcelain
  Potter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln operator, brick and tile - 8131
  Kiln operator, pottery and porcelain 8131

7412  BAKERS, PASTRY-COOKS AND CONFECTIONERY MAKERS
 

     Bakers, pastry-cooks and confectionery makers make various
kinds of  bread, cakes, and other flour products, as well as
handmade chocolate and  sugar confectionery.

     Tasks include  -

(a)  making bread, cakes, biscuits, pastries, pies and other
     flour products;

(b)  making handmade confectionery from mixtures of sugar,
     chocolate and other ingredients with the help of tools and
     some machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Baker
  Confectioner
  Maker, chocolate
 Pastry-cook
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cook - 5122
  Machine-operator, bakery products 8274
  Machine-operator, bread production 8274
  Machine-operator, chocolate production - 8274

7416  TOBACCO PREPARERS AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Tobacco preparers and tobacco products makers prepare
tobacco leaves and  make various tobacco products.

     Tasks  include -

(a)  grading cured tobacco leaves by type, quality and locality
     where grown;

(b)  mixing tobacco leaves according to formula to obtain a blend
     of distinct flavour;

(c)  tending vacuum container which moistens tobacco for further
     processing;

(d)  removing midribs and stalks from tobacco leaves and
     shredding tobacco;

(e)  making cigars, cigarettes, snuff and other tobacco products
     by hand or with simple machines;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, tobacco
  Maker, cigar
  Maker, cigarette
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, cigar production - 8279
  Machine-operator, cigarette production - 8279

7342  STEREOTYPERS AND ELECTROTYPERS
 

     Stereotypers and electrotypers make printing plates from
set-up type by  stereotyping and electroplating processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making moulds of set-up type with papier mâché, wax or other
     materials;

(b)  making printing plates by casting metal in moulds of papier
     mâché or other material bearing impression of type, or by
     putting lead alloy backing on copper shell made by
     electroplating moulds to reproduce type;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Electrotyper
  Stereotyper

7322  GLASS-MAKERS, CUTTERS, GRINDERS AND FINISHERS
 

     Glass-makers, cutters, grinders and finishers blow, mould,
press and roll  shapes from molten glass and cut, grind and
polish glass.

     Tasks include -

(a)  shaping molten glass by means of blowpipe, hand moulding,
     heating and bending;

(b)  heating, moulding and pressing optical glass to make lens
     blanks;

(c)  grinding and polishing lens blanks;

(d)  grinding and bevelling edges of glass;

(e)  cutting sheet glass with hand tools and sawing prisms and
     other shapes from optical glass blocks;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blower, glass
  Cutter, glass
  Finisher, glass
  Grinder, glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Furnace-operator, glass production - 8131

7211  METAL MOULDERS AND COREMAKERS
 

     Metal moulders and coremakers make moulds and cores for
casting metal.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making moulds by hand or by using auxiliary machines on a
     bench for small metal castings, or on the foundry floor or
     in a pit for large castings;

(b)  making cores for use in metal moulds;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Coremaker, metal
  Moulder, metal castings
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, coremaking/metal - 8211

7342  STEREOTYPERS AND ELECTROTYPERS
 

     Stereotypers and electrotypers make printing plates from
set-up type by  stereotyping and electroplating processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making moulds of set-up type with papier mâché, wax or other
     materials;

(b)  making printing plates by casting metal in moulds of papier
     mâché or other material bearing impression of type, or by
     putting lead alloy backing on copper shell made by
     electroplating moulds to reproduce type;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Electrotyper
  Stereotyper

7313  JEWELLERY AND PRECIOUS-METAL WORKERS
 

     Jewellery and precious-metal workers make and repair
jewellery and  precious metalware, cut and set gems and engrave
designs on jewellery and  precious metal articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  casting jewellery and other non-ferrous metal articles by
     hand;

(b)  making complete jewellery articles such as rings, brooches
     and bracelets;

(c)  cutting and polishing gems and setting them in jewellery
     articles;

(d)  making and repairing precious metalware;

(e)  rolling and beating precious metals; engraving letters and
     designs on jewellery and precious metalware;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, jewellery
  Goldsmith
  Jeweller
  Setter, gem
  Silversmith

7343  PRINTING ENGRAVERS AND ETCHERS
 

     Printing engravers and etchers engrave lithographic stones
and printing  plates, rollers, dies and blocks by various
processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting designs through film applied to surface of
     lithographic stones;

(b)  engraving steel and copper plates, rollers, dies or wood,
     rubber and linoleum blocks by hand;

(c)  engraving metal plates and rollers by machine;

(d)  transferring designs from lithographic stone to metal
     plates;

(e)  performing all or several tasks in preparing printing plates
     by photogravure process;

(f)  etching metal plates or rollers with acid and retouching;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Engraver, printing/lithographic stone
  Engraver, printing/metal plate
  Etcher, printing/metal plate
  Photo-engraver
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Designer, graphic - 3471

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

3473  STREET, NIGHT-CLUB AND RELATED MUSICIANS, SINGERS AND
DANCERS
 
     Street, night-club and related musicians, singers and
dancers perform  music, or sing or dance on the streets, in
night-clubs, circuses and related  places.     Tasks include -

(a)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist, or
      as a member of a popular music orchestra of circus, or
      other bands;

(b)   singing popular arias as a soloist, or as a member of vocal
      groups in night-clubs, or on the streets;

(c)   performing dances as a soloist, with a partner or as a
      member of dancing groups, in places such as circuses,
      night-clubs or on the streets;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Band leader
  Dancer, night-club
  Musician, night club
  Singer, street
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Conductor, orchestra - 2453
  Dancer, ballet - 2454
  Instrumentalist - 2453
  Singer, choir - 2453

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

2211  BIOLOGISTS, BOTANISTS, ZOOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Biologists, botanists, zoologists and related professionals
conduct  research, improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and  apply scientific knowledge relating to
biology, microbiology, bacteriology,  cytology, genetics,
zoology, botany and ecology, especially in the fields of 
medicine and agriculture.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   conducting field and laboratory experiments concerning all
      forms of life by identifying and classifying human, animal,
      insect or plant specimens, and studying their origin,
      development, chemical and physical form, structure,
      composition, and life and reproductive processes;

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure, development and characteristics of micro-
      organisms such as bacteria or viruses;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the factors
      involved in the origin, development and transmission of
      hereditary characteristics in human beings, animals or
      plants;

(e)   studying all forms of plant life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(f)   studying all forms of animal life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(g)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure and functions of living cells, and the influence
      of physical and chemical factors upon normal and abnormal
      cells;

(h)   studying inter-relationships of animal and plant life and
      the environmental factors involved, and giving professional
      advice to related disciplines;

(i)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bacteriologist
  Biologist
  Botanist
  Ecologist
  Microbiologist
  Zoologist

7434  FURRIERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Furriers and related workers make, alter, repair and restyle
garments and  other articles made of fur, or participate in the
manufacture of ready-to-wear  fur garments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  choosing, stretching and trimming dressed furs to conform
     to the chosen pattern outline of fur garments or other
     articles;

(b)  making coats, jackets and other fur garments and articles;

(c)  participation in the manufacture of ready-to-wear fur
     clothing;

(d)  reclaiming furs or skins from old coats, gluing fabric to
     interior of fur coats and trimming blocked fur garments;

(e)  altering, restyling and repairing fur garments and other fur
     articles;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furrier
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, sewing/fur - 8263

5131  CHILD-CARE WORKERS
 
     Child-care workers take care of employers' children and
oversee their  daily activities, or engage in helping teachers
to look after schoolchildren.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assisting children to bath, dress and feed themselves;

(b)  taking children to and from school or outdoors for
     recreation;

(c)  playing games with children, or entertaining children by
     reading or storytelling;

(d)  maintaining order in children's bedrooms and playrooms;

(e)  taking care of schoolchildren at lunch or other school
     breaks;

(f)  taking care of schoolchildren on excursions, museum visits
     and similar outings;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Governess, children
  Nanny

3241  TRADITIONAL MEDICINE PRACTITIONERS 
     Traditional medicine practitioners treat human mental and
physical  sickness by herbs, medicinal plants and other
techniques traditionally used in  the community, and believed to
cure and heal by assisting or stimulating  nature, and advise on
methods to preserve or improve health and well-being.

     Tasks include -

(a)   treating sickness and injuries using herbs, medicinal
      plants, insects, and other traditional techniques used in
      the community believed to cure and heal by assisting or
      stimulating nature;

(b)   advising community and individuals on proper diet and
      behaviour to preserve or improve health and well-being

(c)   performing related tasks;

(d)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Healer, drugless treatment
  Healer, herbal
  Healer, village
  Naturopath

3143  AIRCRAFT PILOTS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Aircraft pilots and related associate professionals control
the operation  of mechanical, electrical and electronic
equipment, in order to navigate  aircraft for transporting
passengers, mail and freight and perform related  preflight and
in-flight tasks.

  
   Tasks include -

(a)   flying and navigating aircraft in accordance with
      established control and operating procedures;

(b)   preparing and submitting flight plan or examining standard
      flight plan;

(c)   controlling the operation of mechanical, electrical and
      electronic equipment and ensuring that all instruments and
      controls work properly;

(d)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of flying
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Engineer, flight
  Navigator, flight
  Pilot, aircraft

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Instructor, flying - 3340

9312  CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE LABOURERS:  ROADS, DAMS AND SIMILAR  CONSTRUCTIONS
 

     Construction and maintenance labourers perform simple and
routine tasks  in connection with the building and maintenance
of  roads, dams and similar  constructions.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging and filling holes and trenches, spreading gravel and
     related materials and performing other tasks related to the
     building and maintenance of railway tracks and roads;

(b)  carrying bricks and mortar to bricklayer or helping in other
     ways in the building of dams and similar constructions;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, construction
  Labourer, maintenance/dams

2221  MEDICAL DOCTORS 
     Medical doctors conduct research, improve or develop
concepts, theories  and operational methods, and apply preventive
or curative measures.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research into human disorders and illnesses and
      preventive or curative methods;

(b)   conducting medical examinations and making diagnoses;

(c)   prescribing and giving treatment for diagnosed illnesses,
      disorders or injuries;

(d)   giving specialised medical or surgical treatment for
      particular types of illnesses, disorders or injuries;

(e)   giving advice on and applying preventive medicine methods
      and treatments;

(f)   participating in the development and implementation of
      public health laws and regulations for safeguarding and
      promoting the health of a community;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Doctor, medical
  Ophthalmologist
  Physician
  Psychiatrist
  Surgeon

2212  PHARMACOLOGISTS, PATHOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Pharmacologists, pathologists and related professionals
conduct research,  improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and apply  scientific knowledge relating to
anatomy, biochemistry, biophysics,  physiology, pathology, or
pharmacology, in such fields as medicine,  agriculture or
industry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   studying and conducting experiments 

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the chemical
      composition and processes of living organisms;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the life
      processes and functions of human, animal or plant organs,
      tissues, cells, glands and systems under normal and
      abnormal or exceptional conditions;

(e)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the nature,
      causes and development of human, animal or plant diseases
      and disorders;

(f)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the effects
      of drugs and other substances on the tissues, organs and
      physiological processes of human beings and animals, and
      improving existing or developing new drugs;

(g)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Anatomist
  Biochemist
  Biophysicist
  Pathologist
  Pharmacologist
  Physiologist

2221  MEDICAL DOCTORS 
     Medical doctors conduct research, improve or develop
concepts, theories  and operational methods, and apply preventive
or curative measures.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research into human disorders and illnesses and
      preventive or curative methods;

(b)   conducting medical examinations and making diagnoses;

(c)   prescribing and giving treatment for diagnosed illnesses,
      disorders or injuries;

(d)   giving specialised medical or surgical treatment for
      particular types of illnesses, disorders or injuries;

(e)   giving advice on and applying preventive medicine methods
      and treatments;

(f)   participating in the development and implementation of
      public health laws and regulations for safeguarding and
      promoting the health of a community;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Doctor, medical
  Ophthalmologist
  Physician
  Psychiatrist
  Surgeon

3472  RADIO, TELEVISION AND OTHER ANNOUNCERS

 
     Radio, television and other announcers read news bulletins,
conduct  interviews, and make other announcements or
introductions on radio, television  or in theatres and other
establishments.     Tasks include -

(a)   reading news bulletins and making other announcements on
      radio or television;

(b)   introducing performing artists or persons being
      interviewed, and making related announcements on radio,
      television, or in theatres, night-clubs and other
      establishments;

(c)   interviewing persons in public, especially on radio and
      television;

(d)   performing related tasks-

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Announcer, radio
  Announcer, television
  Compere
  Interviewer, media
  Newscaster

9112  STREET VENDORS, NON-FOOD PRODUCTS
 

     Street vendors, non-food products sell various goods in
streets and  public places such as stations, cinemas or theatres.

     Tasks include -

(a)  buying or making various items for sale

(b)  loading and unloading push-cart, bicycle, truck or other
     vehicle, to transport goods to the streets or public places
     such as stations or cinemas;

(c)  displaying goods ;

(d)  approaching customer and selling newspapers or similar
     goods;

(e)  receiving payment on the spot;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Hawker
  Pedlar
  Vendor, theatre programme
  Vendor, street/non-food products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Salesperson, market - 5230
  Salesperson, street stall - 5230
  Vendor, street/food - 9111

8123  METAL-HEAT-TREATING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Metal-heat-treating-plant operators operate and monitor
plant altering  the physical properties of metal objects by
heating, cooling and chemical  treatment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring furnaces which heat and cool metal
     objects to relieve internal stresses, restore ductility and
     refine grain structure;

(b)  operating and monitoring furnaces which harden steel
     objects;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which imparts a hard skin and
     tough, ductile core to steel objects by treating them with
     chemicals, heating and quenching or cooling them;

(d)  operating and monitoring furnaces which reheat hardened
     steel objects to relieve stresses and to impart toughness;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Annealer
  Furnace-operator, hardening/metal
  Furnace-operator, heat-treating/metal

2429  LEGAL PROFESSIONALS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers legal professionals not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 242, Legal professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who perform
legal functions  other than pleading or prosecuting cases or
presiding over judicial  proceedings.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   giving advice on legal aspects of various personal,
      business and administrative problems;

(b)   drawing up legal documents and contracts;

(c)   arranging property transfers;

(d)   determining, by inquest, the causes of any death not
      obviously due to natural causes;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Coroner
  Jurist, except lawyer or judge
  Notary

2451  AUTHORS, JOURNALISTS AND OTHER WRITERS 
     Authors, journalists and other writers write literary works
for  publication or presentation in dramatic form, appraise
merits of artistic  productions, or literary and other works of
art, or write and edit news,  stories and commentaries.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing literary works for publication or
      presentation in dramatic form;

(b)   writing scripts and continuities and preparing programmes
      for stage, film, radio and television productions;

(c)   appraising and writing about merits of literary, musical
      and other works of art, and about artistic performances;

(d)   collecting, reporting and commenting on news and current
      affairs for publication in newspapers and periodicals, or
      for broadcasting by radio or television;

(e)   interviewing politicians and other public figures at press
      conferences and on other occasions, including individual
      interviews recorded for radio or television;

(f)   writing editorials and selecting, revising, arranging and
      editing submitted articles and other material for
      publication in newspapers and periodicals;

(g)   appraising manuscripts submitted for publication in book
      form, making recommendations thereon and editing or
      supervising editing of the material;

(h)   writing advertising copy promoting particular products or
      services;

(i)   selecting, assembling and preparing publicity material
      about business or other organisations for issue through
      press, radio, television and other media;

(j)   designing and writing brochures, handbooks and similar
      technical publications;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Author
  Copywriter, advertising
  Critic
  Editor
  Journalist
  Writer, technical

5152  FORTUNE-TELLERS, PALMISTS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Fortune-tellers, palmists and related workers recount past
and forecast  future events on the basis of the characteristics
of clients' palms, samples  of playing cards drawn at random or
other factors.

     Tasks include -

(a)  interpreting characteristics of clients' palms, samples of
     playing cards, position of tea leaves or coffee remnants in
     a cup, shapes and patterns of bones of dead animals, etc.;

(b)  forecasting future events on the basis of these
     interpretations;

(c)  giving warnings and advice on possible courses of action;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Fortune-teller
  Numerologist
  Palmist

3480  RELIGIOUS ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Religious associate professionals undertake religious works,
devote their  lives to contemplative prayer or meditation, and
preach and propagate the  teachings of their particular religion.     Tasks include -

(a)   undertaking religious works;

(b)   living as a member of a separate community, and observing
      its rules and practices;

(c)   devoting their lives to contemplative prayer or meditation;

(d)   preaching and propagating the teachings of a particular
      religious faith;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Monk, associate professional
  Nun, associate professional
  Preacher, lay
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Bonze - 2460	
  Imam - 2460
  Minister, religion - 2460
  Monk, professional - 2460
  Nun, professional - 2460
  Poojari - 2460
  Priest - 2460
  Rabbi- 2460

2460  RELIGIOUS PROFESSIONALS 
      
     Religious professionals function as perpetrators of the
sacred  traditions, practices and beliefs and celebrate or
administer at the rituals  of initiation, preside over ritual
reenactments of creative, redemptive or  salvatory events, and
offer sacrifices to the gods or to one God.

     Tasks include -

(a)   perpetuating sacred traditions, practices and beliefs;

(d)   conducting religious services, rites and ceremonies;

(c)   undertaking various administrative and social duties,
      including a ending committees and meetings of religious
      organisations;

(d)   providing spiritual and moral guidance in accordance with
      the religion professed;

(e)   propagating religious doctrines in own country or abroad;

(f)   preparing religious sermons and preachings;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bonze
  Imam
  Minister, religion
  Monk, professional
  Nun, professional
  Poojari
  Priest
  Rabbi

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Monk, associate professional - 3480
  Nun, associate professional - 3480
  Preacher, lay - 3480

3231  NURSING ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Nursing associate professionals provide nursing care for the
sick,  injured, and others in need of such care, and, in the
absence of medical  doctors or professional nurses, deal with
emergencies.

     Tasks include -

(a)   providing nursing care, treatment and advice to the ill,
      injured, disabled, and others in need of such care

(b)   assisting medical doctors and professional nurses in their
      tasks, administering medicine and drugs, applying surgical
      dressings and giving other forms of treatment under
      instructions from physicians or professional nurses;

(c)   assisting in giving first-aid treatment in emergencies;

(d)   assisting in preparations for physical and psychiatric
      treatment of mentally ill patients;

(e)   assisting in preparations for social adjustment,
      development and education of mentally or physically
      handicapped patients;

(f)   providing nursing care to patients in their homes;

(g)   providing nursing services, care and advice within a
      community or at a workplace;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 Nurse, associate professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Aid, nursing/hospital - 5132
  Nurse, professional - 2230

2230  NURSING AND MIDWIFERY PROFESSIONALS 
     Nursing and midwifery professionals assist medical doctors
in their  tasks, deal with emergencies in their absence, and
provide professional  nursing care for the sick, injured,
physically and mentally disabled, and  others in need of such
care, or they de liver or assist in the delivery of  babies,
provide antenatal and post-natal care and instruct parents in
baby  care.

     Tasks include -

(a)   giving professional nursing care and treatment, either as
      curative or preventive measures, to ill, injured, disabled
      and other patients, and newborn babies and their mothers,
      in hospitals, clinics or other establishments;

(b)   assisting medical doctors in their tasks, dealing with
      emergencies and giving first-aid treatment in their
      absence;

(c)   administering medicine and drugs, applying surgical
      dressings and giving other forms of treatment prescribed
      by physicians;

(d)   supervising and coordinating the work of nursing and other
      non-medical staff in operating theatres and assisting
      surgeons during operations;

(e)   participating in preparations for physical and
      psychological treatment of mentally ill patients;

(f)   participating in preparations for social adjustment,
      development and education of mentally or physically
      handicapped patients;

(g)   giving profeSSional nursing care to patients in their own
      homes;

(h)   providing professional nursing services, care and advice
      within the community or at a workplace;

(i)   specialising in consultant services to schools, industry
      and other organisations;

(j)   checking on general health and progress of expectant
      mothers during pregnancy, and giving them professional
      advice and care;

(k)   delivering babies in normal births and assisting doctors
      with difficult deliveries;

(l)   attending mothers in the post-natal period to supervise
      their recovery, to check on babies' progress, and to
      instruct parents in baby care;

(m)   advising on and administering birth control methods;

(n)   performing related tasks;

(o)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Matron
  Midwife, professional
  Nurse, professional
  Sister, nursing/professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Aid, nursing/hospital - 5132
  Midwife, associate professional - 3232
  Nurse, associate professional - 3231

5131  CHILD-CARE WORKERS
 
     Child-care workers take care of employers' children and
oversee their  daily activities, or engage in helping teachers
to look after schoolchildren.

     Tasks include -

(a)  assisting children to bath, dress and feed themselves;

(b)  taking children to and from school or outdoors for
     recreation;

(c)  playing games with children, or entertaining children by
     reading or storytelling;

(d)  maintaining order in children's bedrooms and playrooms;

(e)  taking care of schoolchildren at lunch or other school
     breaks;

(f)  taking care of schoolchildren on excursions, museum visits
     and similar outings;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Governess, children
  Nanny

6113  GARDENERS, HORTICULTURAL AND NURSERY GROWERS
 
     Gardeners, horticultural and nursery growers plan and carry
out the  necessary operations to grow vegetables by intensive
cultivation techniques,  to cultivate trees, shrubs, flowers and
other plants, and to produce saplings,  bulbs and seeds, for sale
or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers,  marketing
organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of vegetables, horticultural
     and nursery products to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, bulbs, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery-

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     growing vegetables by intensive cultivation, cultivating
     flowers, trees or bushes and harvesting crops;

(e)  producing saplings, bulbs and seeds;

(f)  cultivating flowers, trees, shrubs and other plants in parks
     or public or private gardens;

(g)  growing plants for exhibition or medicinal purposes;

(h)  delivering or marketing products;

(i)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(j)  tending working animals and maintaining buildings, machinery
     and equipment;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Cultivator, mushroom
  Farm worker, skilled/nursery
  Gardener
  Grower, horticultural nursery
  Horticultural grower
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

3223  DIETICIANS AND NUTRITIONISTS 
     Dieticians and nutritionists conduct research and improve
or develop  concepts and operational methods concerning the
preparation and application of  diets for general and therapeutic
purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)   developing nutritional methods and diets and testing them;

(b)   planning and directing the preparation of therapeutic and
      other diets for individuals, groups in hospitals, or
      workers in particular sectors;

(c)   participating in programmes for nutrition education and
      nutrition rehabilitation activities;

(d)   advising on nutrition aspects of community food issues and
      health programmes;

(e)   keeping up with knowledge in related fields and maintaining
      contacts with appropriate professionals;

(f)   giving talks and lectures on diet and nutrition;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Consultant, dietetic/food processing
  Dietician
  Nutritionist

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

2221  MEDICAL DOCTORS 
     Medical doctors conduct research, improve or develop
concepts, theories  and operational methods, and apply preventive
or curative measures.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research into human disorders and illnesses and
      preventive or curative methods;

(b)   conducting medical examinations and making diagnoses;

(c)   prescribing and giving treatment for diagnosed illnesses,
      disorders or injuries;

(d)   giving specialised medical or surgical treatment for
      particular types of illnesses, disorders or injuries;

(e)   giving advice on and applying preventive medicine methods
      and treatments;

(f)   participating in the development and implementation of
      public health laws and regulations for safeguarding and
      promoting the health of a community;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Doctor, medical
  Ophthalmologist
  Physician
  Psychiatrist
  Surgeon

2114  GEOLOGISTS AND GEOPHYSICISTS 
     Geologists and geophysicists conduct research, improve or
develop  concepts, theories and operational methods, or apply
scientific knowledge  relating to geology and geophysics in such
fields as oil, gas and mineral  exploitation, water conservation,
civil engineering, telecommunications and  navigation.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods related to geology and
      geophysics;

(b)   studying composition and structure of the earth's crust,
      examining rocks, minerals, fossil remains, etc., to
      determine processes affecting the development of the earth,
      trace evolution of past life and establish nature and
      chronology of geological formations;

(c)   interpreting research data and preparing geological
      reports, maps, charts and diagrams;

(d)   applying results of research to assess development
      potential of mineral, gas and oil deposits and underground
      water resources;

(e)   applying geological knowledge to problems encountered in
      civil engineering projects such as the construction of
      dams, bridges, tunnels and large buildings;

(f)   investigating and measuring seismic, gravitational,
      electrical, thermal and magnetic forces affecting the
      earth;

(g)   investigating and measuring optical and acoustic phenomena
      in the atmosphere;

(h)   estimating weight, size and mass of the earth and
      composition and structure of its interior, and studying the
      nature and activity of volcanoes, glaciers and earthquakes;

(i)   charting the earth's magnetic field and applying this and
      other collected data for purposes of broadcasting and
      navigation;

(j)   studying and measuring physical properties of seas and the
      atmosphere and their inter-relationship, such as the
      exchange of thermal energy;

(k)   locating and determining the nature and extent of oil, gas
      and mineral deposits and of ground-water resources, using
      seismological, gravimetric, magnetic, electrical or
      radiometric methods;

(l)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(m)   performing related tasks;

(n)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Geologist
  Geophysicist

9162  SWEEPERS AND RELATED LABOURERS
 

     Sweepers and related labourers sweep and clean streets,
parks, airports,  stations and other public places or perform odd
jobs.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sweeping streets, parks, airports, stations and similar
     public places;

(b)  unloading coal or wood and putting it into cellars of
     private households or establishments;

(c)  chopping and stacking wood

(d)  carrying water;

(e)  shovelling snow;

(f)  beating dust out of carpets by using a carpet-beater;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Odd-job person
  Sweeper, park
  Sweeper, street

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

3449  CUSTOMS, TAX, AND RELATED GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS NOT  ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers customs, tax and related government
associate  professionals not classified elsewhere in Minor group
344, Customs, tax and  related government associate
professionals.     For instance, here should be classified those who examine
places of  business to ensure the use of correct weights and
measures in trade and  monitor the application of price or wage
regulations, referring exceptional or  important cases to Senior
government officials or Managers.     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   examining places of business to ensure the use of correct
      weights and measures in trade;

(b)   monitoring price regulations;

(c)   monitoring wage regulations;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:   Inspector, price	
  Inspector, sanitary
  Inspector wage
  Inspector, weights and measures

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Inspector, occupational safety - 31 52
  Inspector, quality/products - 3152

3442  GOVERNMENT TAX AND EXCISE OFFICIALS
 
     Government tax and excise officials examine tax returns,
bills of sale  and other documents to determine the type and
amount of taxes, duties and  other types of fees to be paid by
individuals or businesses, referring  exceptional or important
cases to Senior government officials or Managers.     Tasks include -

(a)   advising organisations, enterprises and the general public
      on the proper understanding of government laws, rules and
      regulations concerning the determination and payment of
      taxes, duties and other government fees, and on the
      public's rights and obligations;

(b)   examining tax returns, bills of sale and other relevant
      documents to determine type and amount of taxes, duties and
      other types of fees to be paid;

(c)   performing related tasks;

(d)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Officer, excise	
  Officer, tax

3444  GOVERNMENT LICENSING OFFICIALS
 
     Government licensing officials examine applications for
licences to  export or import goods, set up a business, build a
house or other structures,  or to obtain a passport, and
determine whether applications for licences or  passports are to
be approved and whether specific conditions are to be  attached
to the licence, referring exceptional or important cases to
Senior  government officials or Managers.     Tasks include -

(a)   advising individuals on the proper understanding of
      government laws and regulations concerning the type of
      licence required and the conditions attached to such
      licences, and on the public's rights and obligations;

(b)   examining applications and relevant documents and
      determining whether a licence can be granted and the
      conditions which should be attached;

(c)   examining applications and approving the issue of
      passports;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Officer, licensing
  Officer, passport issuing

2412  PERSONNEL AND CAREERS PROFESSIONALS 
     Personnel and careers professionals provide professional
business  services related to personnel policies such as employee
recruitment or  development, occupational analyses and vocational
guidance.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising on and performing personnel functions relating to
      employee recruitment, placement, training, promotion,
      compensation, and employee-management relations or other
      areas of personnel policy;

(b)   studying and analysing jobs performed in an establishment
      by various means, including interviews with workers,
      supervisors and management, and writing detailed post, job
      and occupation descriptions from data obtained;

(c)   preparing occupational information booklets or working on
      occupational classification systems;

(d)   advising and working on the foregoing and other aspects of
      job and occupation analyses in such fields as personnel
      administration, manpower research and planning, training,
      or occupational information and vocational guidance;

(e)   studying and advising individuals on employment
      opportunities, career choices and further education or
      training that may be desirable;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Adviser, careers
  Analyst, job
  Analyst, occupational
  Counsellor, vocational guidance

3423  EMPLOYMENT AGENTS AND LABOUR CONTRACTORS
 
     Employment agents and labour contractors match jobseekers
with vacancies,  find workers for employers and contract labour
for particular projects at the  request of enterprises and other,
including government, institutions, or find  places for
jobseekers for a commission.     Tasks include -

(a)   matching jobseekers with vacancies known to government job
      placement offices, or advising on training schemes;

(b)   finding workers for vacant posts against a commission from
      the employer or worker;

(c)   discussing with enterprises/organisations the needed skills
      and other characteristics of the workers to be employed or
      contracted:

(d)   finding workers with appropriate skills, etc., and
      undertaking the necessary formalities according to national
      or international regulations and requirements;

(e)   ensuring that the employment contracts meet legal
      requirements and signing them;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Agent, employment
  Contractor, labour
  Officer, job placement

3444  GOVERNMENT LICENSING OFFICIALS
 
     Government licensing officials examine applications for
licences to  export or import goods, set up a business, build a
house or other structures,  or to obtain a passport, and
determine whether applications for licences or  passports are to
be approved and whether specific conditions are to be  attached
to the licence, referring exceptional or important cases to
Senior  government officials or Managers.     Tasks include -

(a)   advising individuals on the proper understanding of
      government laws and regulations concerning the type of
      licence required and the conditions attached to such
      licences, and on the public's rights and obligations;

(b)   examining applications and relevant documents and
      determining whether a licence can be granted and the
      conditions which should be attached;

(c)   examining applications and approving the issue of
      passports;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Officer, licensing
  Officer, passport issuing

2412  PERSONNEL AND CAREERS PROFESSIONALS 
     Personnel and careers professionals provide professional
business  services related to personnel policies such as employee
recruitment or  development, occupational analyses and vocational
guidance.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising on and performing personnel functions relating to
      employee recruitment, placement, training, promotion,
      compensation, and employee-management relations or other
      areas of personnel policy;

(b)   studying and analysing jobs performed in an establishment
      by various means, including interviews with workers,
      supervisors and management, and writing detailed post, job
      and occupation descriptions from data obtained;

(c)   preparing occupational information booklets or working on
      occupational classification systems;

(d)   advising and working on the foregoing and other aspects of
      job and occupation analyses in such fields as personnel
      administration, manpower research and planning, training,
      or occupational information and vocational guidance;

(e)   studying and advising individuals on employment
      opportunities, career choices and further education or
      training that may be desirable;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Adviser, careers
  Analyst, job
  Analyst, occupational
  Counsellor, vocational guidance

3441  CUSTOMS AND BORDER INSPECTORS
 
     Customs and border inspectors check persons and vehicles
crossing  national borders to enforce relevant government rules
and regulations.     Tasks include -

(a)   patrolling national borders and coastal waters to stop
      persons from illegally entering or leaving the country and
      from illegally importing or exporting currency or goods;

(b)   checking travel documents of persons crossing national
      borders to ensure that they have the necessary
      authorizations and certificates;

(c)   inspecting the luggage of persons crossing national borders
      to ensure that it conforms to government rules and
      regulations concerning import or export of goods and
      currencies;

(d)   checking transport documents and freight of vehicles
      crossing national borders to ensure conformity with
      government rules and regulations concerning goods in
      transit and the import and export of goods, and to verify
      that necessary payments have been made;

(e)   when necessary, testifying in a court of law about the
      circumstances and results of investigations carried out;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Inspector, border
  Inspector, customs
  Officer, passport checking

3444  GOVERNMENT LICENSING OFFICIALS
 
     Government licensing officials examine applications for
licences to  export or import goods, set up a business, build a
house or other structures,  or to obtain a passport, and
determine whether applications for licences or  passports are to
be approved and whether specific conditions are to be  attached
to the licence, referring exceptional or important cases to
Senior  government officials or Managers.     Tasks include -

(a)   advising individuals on the proper understanding of
      government laws and regulations concerning the type of
      licence required and the conditions attached to such
      licences, and on the public's rights and obligations;

(b)   examining applications and relevant documents and
      determining whether a licence can be granted and the
      conditions which should be attached;

(c)   examining applications and approving the issue of
      passports;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Officer, licensing
  Officer, passport issuing

3443  GOVERNMENT SOCIAL BENEFITS OFFICIALS
 
     Government social benefits officials examine applications
for benefits,  in cash or in kind, to determine eligibility and
amount of benefit, referring  exceptional or important cases to
Senior government officials or Managers.     Tasks include -

(a)   advising individuals and organisations on the proper
      understanding of government laws, rules and regulations
      concerning government benefits and the determination and
      disbursement of payments, as well as on the public's rights
      and obligations;

(b)   examining applications and other relevant documents to
      determine type and amount of benefit which individuals
      should receive;

(c)   performing related tasks;

(d)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Officer, pensions
  Officer, social benefits
  Officer, social security claims

2412  PERSONNEL AND CAREERS PROFESSIONALS 
     Personnel and careers professionals provide professional
business  services related to personnel policies such as employee
recruitment or  development, occupational analyses and vocational
guidance.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising on and performing personnel functions relating to
      employee recruitment, placement, training, promotion,
      compensation, and employee-management relations or other
      areas of personnel policy;

(b)   studying and analysing jobs performed in an establishment
      by various means, including interviews with workers,
      supervisors and management, and writing detailed post, job
      and occupation descriptions from data obtained;

(c)   preparing occupational information booklets or working on
      occupational classification systems;

(d)   advising and working on the foregoing and other aspects of
      job and occupation analyses in such fields as personnel
      administration, manpower research and planning, training,
      or occupational information and vocational guidance;

(e)   studying and advising individuals on employment
      opportunities, career choices and further education or
      training that may be desirable;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Adviser, careers
  Analyst, job
  Analyst, occupational
  Counsellor, vocational guidance

2419  BUSINESS PROFESSIONALS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers business professionals not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 241, Business professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  studying, advising on and applying operational
methods relating to various  aspects of business undertakings,
such as marketing, advertising, public  relations, application
of rules concerning patents, or steps to be taken in  setting up
and running a business, and home economics principles.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   conducting research and determining or advising on existing
      level of sales for particular products or services, and
      assessing potential markets and future trends;

(b)   planning, advising on or directing and coordinating
      production of advertising campaigns;

(c)   studying, advising on and conducting public relations
      programmes with a view to improving the public's knowledge
      and understanding of the enterprise or establishment in
      question;

(d)   giving advice concerning patents and assisting in preparing
      applications or examining applications submitted for
      registration, and writing reports setting out reasons for
      or against the granting of a patent;

(e)   studying and advising on financial, legal, organisational,
      marketing and other aspects connected with setting up and
      running a business;

(f)   studying, interpreting and informing about and advising on
      principles of home economics and management with a view to
      promoting welfare of families, as well as the consumption
      of household goods, or the promotion of new products;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Account executive, advertising
  Analyst, market research
  Home economist
  Officer, public relations
  Patent agent

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Company secretary - 1231

3231  NURSING ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Nursing associate professionals provide nursing care for the
sick,  injured, and others in need of such care, and, in the
absence of medical  doctors or professional nurses, deal with
emergencies.

     Tasks include -

(a)   providing nursing care, treatment and advice to the ill,
      injured, disabled, and others in need of such care

(b)   assisting medical doctors and professional nurses in their
      tasks, administering medicine and drugs, applying surgical
      dressings and giving other forms of treatment under
      instructions from physicians or professional nurses;

(c)   assisting in giving first-aid treatment in emergencies;

(d)   assisting in preparations for physical and psychiatric
      treatment of mentally ill patients;

(e)   assisting in preparations for social adjustment,
      development and education of mentally or physically
      handicapped patients;

(f)   providing nursing care to patients in their homes;

(g)   providing nursing services, care and advice within a
      community or at a workplace;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 Nurse, associate professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Aid, nursing/hospital - 5132
  Nurse, professional - 2230

2230  NURSING AND MIDWIFERY PROFESSIONALS 
     Nursing and midwifery professionals assist medical doctors
in their  tasks, deal with emergencies in their absence, and
provide professional  nursing care for the sick, injured,
physically and mentally disabled, and  others in need of such
care, or they de liver or assist in the delivery of  babies,
provide antenatal and post-natal care and instruct parents in
baby  care.

     Tasks include -

(a)   giving professional nursing care and treatment, either as
      curative or preventive measures, to ill, injured, disabled
      and other patients, and newborn babies and their mothers,
      in hospitals, clinics or other establishments;

(b)   assisting medical doctors in their tasks, dealing with
      emergencies and giving first-aid treatment in their
      absence;

(c)   administering medicine and drugs, applying surgical
      dressings and giving other forms of treatment prescribed
      by physicians;

(d)   supervising and coordinating the work of nursing and other
      non-medical staff in operating theatres and assisting
      surgeons during operations;

(e)   participating in preparations for physical and
      psychological treatment of mentally ill patients;

(f)   participating in preparations for social adjustment,
      development and education of mentally or physically
      handicapped patients;

(g)   giving profeSSional nursing care to patients in their own
      homes;

(h)   providing professional nursing services, care and advice
      within the community or at a workplace;

(i)   specialising in consultant services to schools, industry
      and other organisations;

(j)   checking on general health and progress of expectant
      mothers during pregnancy, and giving them professional
      advice and care;

(k)   delivering babies in normal births and assisting doctors
      with difficult deliveries;

(l)   attending mothers in the post-natal period to supervise
      their recovery, to check on babies' progress, and to
      instruct parents in baby care;

(m)   advising on and administering birth control methods;

(n)   performing related tasks;

(o)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Matron
  Midwife, professional
  Nurse, professional
  Sister, nursing/professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Aid, nursing/hospital - 5132
  Midwife, associate professional - 3232
  Nurse, associate professional - 3231

2419  BUSINESS PROFESSIONALS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers business professionals not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 241, Business professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  studying, advising on and applying operational
methods relating to various  aspects of business undertakings,
such as marketing, advertising, public  relations, application
of rules concerning patents, or steps to be taken in  setting up
and running a business, and home economics principles.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   conducting research and determining or advising on existing
      level of sales for particular products or services, and
      assessing potential markets and future trends;

(b)   planning, advising on or directing and coordinating
      production of advertising campaigns;

(c)   studying, advising on and conducting public relations
      programmes with a view to improving the public's knowledge
      and understanding of the enterprise or establishment in
      question;

(d)   giving advice concerning patents and assisting in preparing
      applications or examining applications submitted for
      registration, and writing reports setting out reasons for
      or against the granting of a patent;

(e)   studying and advising on financial, legal, organisational,
      marketing and other aspects connected with setting up and
      running a business;

(f)   studying, interpreting and informing about and advising on
      principles of home economics and management with a view to
      promoting welfare of families, as well as the consumption
      of household goods, or the promotion of new products;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Account executive, advertising
  Analyst, market research
  Home economist
  Officer, public relations
  Patent agent

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Company secretary - 1231

3142  SHIPS' DECK OFFICERS AND PILOTS 
     Ships' deck officers and pilots command and navigate ships
and similar  vessels, and perform related functions on shore.

     Tasks include -

(a)   commanding and navigating ship or similar vessel at sea or
      on inland waterways;

(b)   controlling and participating in deck and bridge-watch
      activities;

(c)   navigating vessels into and out of ports and through
      channels, straits and other waters where special knowledge
      is required;

(d)   ensuring safe loading and unloading of cargo and observance
      of safety regulations and procedures by crew and
      passengers'.

(e)   performing technical supervision of maintenance and repair
      of ship to ensure compliance with specifications and
      regulations;

(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices relating to
      ship's operation and navigation in order to identify and
      solve problems arising in the course of their work;

(g)   ordering ship's stores and recruiting crew as required and
      maintaining record of operations;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Captain ship/sea
  Pilot, ship
  Skipper, yacht

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Sailor - 8340

3132  BROADCASTING AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT OPERATORS 
     Broadcasting and telecommunications equipment operators
control technical  functioning of equipment for transmitting
radio and television broadcasts of  prerecorded or live images
and sounds, as well as other types of telecommunications signals
on land and sea or in aircraft.
     
     Tasks include -

(a)   controlling transmitting and broadcasting systems and
      satellite systems for radio and television programmes;

(b)   controlling radio communications systems, satellite
      services and multiplex systems on land and sea and in
      aircraft;

(c)   controlling cinema projection equipment;

(d)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of
      broadcasting, telecommunications terminals and transmission
      systems, in order to identify and solve problems arising
in
      the course of their work and maintain equipment;

(e)   keeping logs of operations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, broadcasting equipment/ radio
  Operator, telecommunications equipment
  Operator, transmitting equipment/television

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Mechanic, electronics - 7243
  Technician, engineering/telecommunications - 3114

3443  GOVERNMENT SOCIAL BENEFITS OFFICIALS
 
     Government social benefits officials examine applications
for benefits,  in cash or in kind, to determine eligibility and
amount of benefit, referring  exceptional or important cases to
Senior government officials or Managers.     Tasks include -

(a)   advising individuals and organisations on the proper
      understanding of government laws, rules and regulations
      concerning government benefits and the determination and
      disbursement of payments, as well as on the public's rights
      and obligations;

(b)   examining applications and other relevant documents to
      determine type and amount of benefit which individuals
      should receive;

(c)   performing related tasks;

(d)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Officer, pensions
  Officer, social benefits
  Officer, social security claims

2412  PERSONNEL AND CAREERS PROFESSIONALS 
     Personnel and careers professionals provide professional
business  services related to personnel policies such as employee
recruitment or  development, occupational analyses and vocational
guidance.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising on and performing personnel functions relating to
      employee recruitment, placement, training, promotion,
      compensation, and employee-management relations or other
      areas of personnel policy;

(b)   studying and analysing jobs performed in an establishment
      by various means, including interviews with workers,
      supervisors and management, and writing detailed post, job
      and occupation descriptions from data obtained;

(c)   preparing occupational information booklets or working on
      occupational classification systems;

(d)   advising and working on the foregoing and other aspects of
      job and occupation analyses in such fields as personnel
      administration, manpower research and planning, training,
      or occupational information and vocational guidance;

(e)   studying and advising individuals on employment
      opportunities, career choices and further education or
      training that may be desirable;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Adviser, careers
  Analyst, job
  Analyst, occupational
  Counsellor, vocational guidance

3442  GOVERNMENT TAX AND EXCISE OFFICIALS
 
     Government tax and excise officials examine tax returns,
bills of sale  and other documents to determine the type and
amount of taxes, duties and  other types of fees to be paid by
individuals or businesses, referring  exceptional or important
cases to Senior government officials or Managers.     Tasks include -

(a)   advising organisations, enterprises and the general public
      on the proper understanding of government laws, rules and
      regulations concerning the determination and payment of
      taxes, duties and other government fees, and on the
      public's rights and obligations;

(b)   examining tax returns, bills of sale and other relevant
      documents to determine type and amount of taxes, duties and
      other types of fees to be paid;

(c)   performing related tasks;

(d)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Officer, excise	
  Officer, tax

3423  EMPLOYMENT AGENTS AND LABOUR CONTRACTORS
 
     Employment agents and labour contractors match jobseekers
with vacancies,  find workers for employers and contract labour
for particular projects at the  request of enterprises and other,
including government, institutions, or find  places for
jobseekers for a commission.     Tasks include -

(a)   matching jobseekers with vacancies known to government job
      placement offices, or advising on training schemes;

(b)   finding workers for vacant posts against a commission from
      the employer or worker;

(c)   discussing with enterprises/organisations the needed skills
      and other characteristics of the workers to be employed or
      contracted:

(d)   finding workers with appropriate skills, etc., and
      undertaking the necessary formalities according to national
      or international regulations and requirements;

(e)   ensuring that the employment contracts meet legal
      requirements and signing them;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Agent, employment
  Contractor, labour
  Officer, job placement

3439  ADMINISTRATIVE ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers administrative associate
professionals not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 343,
Administrative associate professionals.     For instance, here should be classified those who act as
administrative consular officials, undertake executive
secretarial duties for departmental  heads or official
committees, analyse files and other sources of information  and
write reports for responsible administrators, giving relevant
information  and some advice on policy questions, departmental
programmes, administrative  problems and other matters.     In such cases tasks would include:

(a)   acting as administrative consular official;

(b)   undertaking executive secretarial duties for departmental
      heads-
(c)   undertaking executive secretarial duties for official
      committees;

(d)   analysing files and other sources of information, and
      writing reports for responsible administrators;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Executive secretary, committee
  Executive secretary, government administration
  Official, consular

3449  CUSTOMS, TAX, AND RELATED GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS NOT  ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers customs, tax and related government
associate  professionals not classified elsewhere in Minor group
344, Customs, tax and  related government associate
professionals.     For instance, here should be classified those who examine
places of  business to ensure the use of correct weights and
measures in trade and  monitor the application of price or wage
regulations, referring exceptional or  important cases to Senior
government officials or Managers.     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   examining places of business to ensure the use of correct
      weights and measures in trade;

(b)   monitoring price regulations;

(c)   monitoring wage regulations;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:   Inspector, price	
  Inspector, sanitary
  Inspector wage
  Inspector, weights and measures

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Inspector, occupational safety - 31 52
  Inspector, quality/products - 3152

1110  LEGISLATORS 
      Legislators determine, formulate, and direct policies of
national, state,  regional or local governments, and make,
ratify, amend or repeal laws, public  rules and regulations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   presiding over or participating in the proceedings of
      legislative bodies and administrative councils of national,
      state, regional or local governments or legislative
      assemblies;

(b)   determining, formulating, and directing policies of
      national, state, regional or local governments;

(c)   making, ratifying, amending or repealing laws, public rules
      and regulations within the framework of a Constitution
      determining their powers and fields of jurisdiction;

(d)   serving on government administrative boards or official
      committees;

(e)   promoting the interests of the constituencies which they
      represent;

(f)   as members of the government, directing senior
      administrators and officials of government departments and
      agencies in the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Minister, government

President, government

Prime minister

Secretary, government/legislative

Senator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Secretary, government/non legislative - 1120

3475  ATHLETES, SPORTSPERSONS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Athletes, sportspersons and related associate professionals
participate  in competitive sporting events, conduct sports
training, compile rules  concerning sporting events, and control
the progress of these events.     Tasks include -

(a)   participating in competitive sporting events;

(b)   conducting sports training to develop ability in and
      knowledge of the sport;

(c)   compiling rules concerning the conduct of sporting
      competitions, and controlling the progress of these events;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Athlete
  Boxer
  Coach, sports
  Official, sports
  Wrestler

7233  AGRICULTURAL- OR INDUSTRIAL-MACHINERY MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Agricultural- or industrial-machinery mechanics and fitters
fit, install,  examine, service and repair engines (except motor 
vehicle and aircraft  engines), agricultural  or industrial
machinery and mechanical equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, installing, examining, servicing and repairing
     engines (except motor vehicle and aircraft engines),
     agricultural or industrial machinery and mechanical
     equipment;

(b)  oiling and greasing stationary engines, machinery and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing new machinery and mechanical
     equipment for conformity with standards and specifications;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/marine
  Fitter, mining machinery
  Fitter, textile machinery
  Mechanic, construction machinery
  Mechanic, farm machinery
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/aircraft - 8281

2213  AGRONOMISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Agronomists and related professionals conduct research and
improve or  develop concepts, theories and operational methods,
and apply scientific  knowledge relating to crop and animal
husbandry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   researching into field crops and grasses and developing new
      or improved cultivation methods;

(b)   researching into horticultural crops and developing new or
      improved cultivation methods;

(c)   researching into animal husbandry and developing new or
      improved breeding methods;

(d)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for tree propagation and culture, or planning and directing
      afforestation and exploitation of forest stands;

(e)   researching into characteristics, use capability and
      productivity of soils and applying findings to development
      of improved agricultural, horticultural and forestry
      practices;

(f)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for wildlife conservation;

(g)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for economic exploitation of grazing lands;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Agronomist
  Animal scientist
  Forestry scientist
  Horticulturist
  Soil scientist

8333  CRANE, HOIST AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Crane, hoist and related plant operators operate and monitor
cranes and  other hoisting equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mobile or stationary cranes with
     mobile or fixed jib or boom ;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment for hoisting, lowering
     or raising men and materials on construction site or in
     mine;

(c)  operating and monitoring ski-lifts and similar equipment;

(d)  operating and monitoring machinery used to haul ferry or
     barge with goods, passengers and vehicles across short
     stretches of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machinery to open and close bridge
     for the passage of road and water traffic;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, crane
  Operator, hoist

7431  FIBRE PREPARERS
 

     Fibre preparers prepare wool, cotton,flax, jute, hemp and
other natural  textile fibres for spinning and winding.

     Tasks include -

(a)  grading and classifying natural textile fibres;

(b)  washing wool fibres;

(c)  cleaning and fluffing textile fibres;

(d)  forming fibres into sliver, combing them, combining sliver
     into sliver laps or forming sliver into rove;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Comber, fibre/textiles
  Drawer, fibre/textiles
  Rover, fibre/textiles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator combing/textile fibres - 8261

8331  MOTORISED FARM AND FORESTRY PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Motorised farm and forestry plant operators drive, tend,
operate and  monitor one or more types of motorised, mobile
machinery or equipment used in  farming or forestry operations.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending tractor or self-propelled ploughing,
     planting, harvesting, baling or other special-purpose farm
     machinery, or similar tractor-drawn equipment;

(b)  driving and tending tractor or self-propelled clearing,
     planting, harvesting, timber-carrying or other special-
     purpose forestry machinery;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, timber carrier
  Driver, tractor
  Operator, harvester
  Operator, motorised farm equipment

3144  AIR TRAFFIC CONTROLLERS 
     Air traffic controllers direct aircraft movements in
airspace and on the  ground, using radio, radar and lighting
systems, and provide information  relevant to the operation of
aircraft.

     Tasks include -

(a)   directing and controlling aircraft approaching and leaving
      airport and their movement on the ground;

(b)   directing and controlling aircraft operating in designated
      airspace sector;

(c)   examining and approving flight plans;

(d)   informing flight crew and operations staff about weather
      conditions, operational facilities, flight plans and air
      traffic;

(e)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of air tram
      ic control in order to identify and solve problems arising
      in the course of their work;

(f)   initiating and organising emergency, search and rescue
      services and procedures;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Controller, air traffic

8171  AUTOMATED-ASSEMBLY-LINE OPERATORS
 

     Automated-assembly-line operators operate and monitor
automated or  semi-automated assembly lines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring automated or semi-automated
     assembly lines;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, assembly-line/automated.

3131  PHOTOGRAPHERS AND IMAGE AND SOUND RECORDING EQUIPMENT
OPERATORS 
     Photographers and image and sound recording equipment
operators take  photographs, control motion picture and video
cameras and other equipment to  record and edit images and sound.

 
    Tasks include -

(a)   taking photographs for advertising, or other commercial,
      industrial or scientific purposes and to illustrate stories
      and articles in newspapers, magazines and other
      publications;

(b)   taking portrait photographs of persons and groups of
      persons;

(c)   setting and operating motion picture, video, microscopic
      and other specialised cameras, including those for aerial
      photography, to record images;

(d)   controlling equipment to record sound for motion pictures,
      videotapes, gramophone records, audio tapes, digital discs,
      direct broadcasting or other purposes.,

(e)   controlling equipment to edit and mix image and sound
      recordings to ensure satisfactory quality and to create
      special image and sound effects;

(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of image and
      sound recording and editing in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, camera/motion picture
  Operator, recording equipment/sound
  Operator, studio equipment/television
  Photographer

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Mechanic, electronics - 7243
  Photographer, photogravure - 7343
  Photolithographer - 7343
  Repairer, photographic equipment 7311

3133  MEDICAL EQUIPMENT OPERATORS 
     Medical equipment operators control technical equipment used
to diagnose  or treat illnesses and disorders.

     Tasks include -

(a)   controlling technical equipment used to diagnose illnesses
      and disorders of the nervous system and organs, or in
      radiography or anaesthetics;

(b)   applying knowledge of technical equipment and some
      principles and practices of medicine in order to identify
      and solve problems arising in the course of their work and
      maintain equipment;

(c)   performing related tasks;

(d)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, electrocardiograph equipment
  Operator, medical X-ray equipment
  Operator, scanning equipment

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Mechanic, electronics - 7243

8152  CHEMICAL-HEAT-TREATING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Chemical-heat-treating-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which cook, roast and provide other
types of heat treatment in  chemical and related processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which cook
     materials in order to purify, mix or compound them, give
     them special properties or effect chemical changes in them;

(b)  operating and monitoring ovens, kilns or similar devices
     which heat substances in order to dry them, give them
     special properties or effect chemical changes in them ;

(c)  operating and monitoring driers for the processing of
     chemicals and related materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Kiln-operator, chemical and related processes
  Operator, cement production plant
  Operator, roasting equipment/chemical and related
        processes

8275  FRUIT-, VEGETABLE- AND NUT-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fruit-, vegetable- and nut-processing machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which extract juice from fruit and
vegetables or oil from  oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit, and
which process fruit, vegetables and  nuts by drying, cooking,
canning or freezing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which extract juice from
     fruit and vegetables by heating or pressing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     oil from oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make margarine and
     similar products from animal and vegetable oils;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare fruit,
     vegetables and nuts for further processing ;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which dry, cook, can,
     freeze or otherwise process fruit, vegetables and nuts

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fruit processing
  Machine-operator, vegetable processing
  Press-operator, edible oils
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Expeller, oil - 7414
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production - 8278
  Preserver, fruit - 7414
  Preserver, vegetable - 7414

8271  MEAT- AND FISH-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Meat- and fish-processing-machine operators operate and
monitor machines  used to slaughter animals, trim carcasses,
prepare standard meat or fish cuts,  and manufacture meat and
fish products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to slaughter animals
     and to cut carcasses or fish into standard pieces;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines used to mince and mix meat
     or fish;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines used to process meat and
     fish and manufacture various meat and fish products, such
as
     sausages, smoked meat or smoked fish;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines used to produce canned or
     frozen meat and fish dishes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fish processing
  Machine-operator, meat processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Butcher - 7411
  Fishmonger - 7411

8275  FRUIT-, VEGETABLE- AND NUT-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fruit-, vegetable- and nut-processing machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which extract juice from fruit and
vegetables or oil from  oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit, and
which process fruit, vegetables and  nuts by drying, cooking,
canning or freezing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which extract juice from
     fruit and vegetables by heating or pressing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     oil from oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make margarine and
     similar products from animal and vegetable oils;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare fruit,
     vegetables and nuts for further processing ;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which dry, cook, can,
     freeze or otherwise process fruit, vegetables and nuts

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fruit processing
  Machine-operator, vegetable processing
  Press-operator, edible oils
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Expeller, oil - 7414
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production - 8278
  Preserver, fruit - 7414
  Preserver, vegetable - 7414

8331  MOTORISED FARM AND FORESTRY PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Motorised farm and forestry plant operators drive, tend,
operate and  monitor one or more types of motorised, mobile
machinery or equipment used in  farming or forestry operations.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending tractor or self-propelled ploughing,
     planting, harvesting, baling or other special-purpose farm
     machinery, or similar tractor-drawn equipment;

(b)  driving and tending tractor or self-propelled clearing,
     planting, harvesting, timber-carrying or other special-
     purpose forestry machinery;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, timber carrier
  Driver, tractor
  Operator, harvester
  Operator, motorised farm equipment

8141  WOOD-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Wood-processing-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment for sawing wood, cutting veneer and
making plywood, and otherwise  prepare wood for further use.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring log in-feed and conveyor systems;

(b)  operating and monitoring head saws, resaws and multiblade
     saws to saw logs, cants, flitches, slabs or wings and remove
     rough edges from sawn timber;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut veneer;

(d)  operating and monitoring plywood core-laying machines and
     hot-plate plywood presses;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, band-saw
  Operator, sawmill
  Operator, wood-processing plant
  Press-operator, plywood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Wood seasoner - 7421
  Wood treater - 7421

8340  SHIPS' DECK CREWS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Ship's deck crews and related workers carry out deck duties
on board ship  and similar duties on board other water-borne
craft.

     Tasks include -

(a)  standing look-out watches at sea and when entering or
     leaving harbour or other narrow waters'.
(b)  steering ship according to instructions;

(c)  handling mooring lines on board;

(d)  maintaining and, in some cases, operating ship's equipment,
     cargo gear, rigging, life-saving and fire-fighting
     appliances;

(e)  performing deck and hull cleaning, scraping, painting and
     other maintenance duties as required;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Boatswain
  Sailor
  Seaman, able
  Seawoman, able

8142  PAPER-PULP PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Paper-pulp plant operators operate and monitor machinery and
equipment  which converts materials such as wood, rags, esparto,
straw, scrap-pulp and  paper into stock for use in papermaking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring chipper and grinding machines which
     reduce logs to pulp;

(b)  operating and monitoring digesters which produce pulp from
     materials such as wood, rags, esparto, straw or scrap-pulp
     and scrap paper;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which bleach wood pulp,
     rags, esparto, straw or scrap-pulp and scrap paper;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which mix, beat and
     hydrate pulp and other ingredients to prepare stuff for
     making paper;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, grinding/wood
  Operator, chipper/paper pulp
  Operator, paper-pulp plant

8159  CHEMICAL-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-processing-plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 815, Chemical-processing
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment
which treat chemical  solutions with bleaching reagents, produce
coke or gas from coal, extrude and  form natural or synthetic
polymers into synthetic fibres, produce fertilisers,  or extract
and process radioactive materials.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which treats chemical
     solutions with bleaching reagents;

(b)  operating and monitoring plant which produces coke or gas
     from coal;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which extrudes or forms
     natural or synthetic polymers into synthetic fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring fertiliser plant equipment;

(e)  operating and monitoring plant which separates and extracts
     radioactive materials from their ores or processes such
     materials;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, coke production plant
  Operator, fertiliser plant
  Operator, synthetic-fibre production plant

8142  PAPER-PULP PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Paper-pulp plant operators operate and monitor machinery and
equipment  which converts materials such as wood, rags, esparto,
straw, scrap-pulp and  paper into stock for use in papermaking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring chipper and grinding machines which
     reduce logs to pulp;

(b)  operating and monitoring digesters which produce pulp from
     materials such as wood, rags, esparto, straw or scrap-pulp
     and scrap paper;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which bleach wood pulp,
     rags, esparto, straw or scrap-pulp and scrap paper;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which mix, beat and
     hydrate pulp and other ingredients to prepare stuff for
     making paper;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, grinding/wood
  Operator, chipper/paper pulp
  Operator, paper-pulp plant

8155  PETROLEUM- AND NATURAL GAS-REFINING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Petroleum- and natural-gas-refining plant operators operate
and monitor  plant which refines, distils and treats petroleum,
petroleum-based products  and by-products, or natural gas.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which removes sulphur from
     petroleum and petroleum-based products, and byproducts;

(b)  operating and monitoring pumps which circulate petroleum
     products or water and chemical solutions through refinery;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which distil or refine
     petroleum products;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend petrol with
     chemicals and other additives;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which refine or otherwise
     treat natural gas,

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, blender/petroleum and natural gas refining
        (ethyl)
  Operator, paraffin plant
  Operator, still/petroleum and natural gas refining

8333  CRANE, HOIST AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Crane, hoist and related plant operators operate and monitor
cranes and  other hoisting equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mobile or stationary cranes with
     mobile or fixed jib or boom ;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment for hoisting, lowering
     or raising men and materials on construction site or in
     mine;

(c)  operating and monitoring ski-lifts and similar equipment;

(d)  operating and monitoring machinery used to haul ferry or
     barge with goods, passengers and vehicles across short
     stretches of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machinery to open and close bridge
     for the passage of road and water traffic;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, crane
  Operator, hoist

8162  STEAM-ENGINE AND BOILER OPERATORS
 

     Steam-engine and boiler operators operate and monitor steam-
engines and  boilers on land and at sea.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring coal- or oil fired steam-engines
     or boilers on land and at sea;

(b)  performing' related tasks

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, boiler/ship
  Operator, steam engine

8152  CHEMICAL-HEAT-TREATING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Chemical-heat-treating-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which cook, roast and provide other
types of heat treatment in  chemical and related processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which cook
     materials in order to purify, mix or compound them, give
     them special properties or effect chemical changes in them;

(b)  operating and monitoring ovens, kilns or similar devices
     which heat substances in order to dry them, give them
     special properties or effect chemical changes in them ;

(c)  operating and monitoring driers for the processing of
     chemicals and related materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Kiln-operator, chemical and related processes
  Operator, cement production plant
  Operator, roasting equipment/chemical and related
        processes

8162  STEAM-ENGINE AND BOILER OPERATORS
 

     Steam-engine and boiler operators operate and monitor steam-
engines and  boilers on land and at sea.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring coal- or oil fired steam-engines
     or boilers on land and at sea;

(b)  performing' related tasks

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, boiler/ship
  Operator, steam engine

8142  PAPER-PULP PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Paper-pulp plant operators operate and monitor machinery and
equipment  which converts materials such as wood, rags, esparto,
straw, scrap-pulp and  paper into stock for use in papermaking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring chipper and grinding machines which
     reduce logs to pulp;

(b)  operating and monitoring digesters which produce pulp from
     materials such as wood, rags, esparto, straw or scrap-pulp
     and scrap paper;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which bleach wood pulp,
     rags, esparto, straw or scrap-pulp and scrap paper;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which mix, beat and
     hydrate pulp and other ingredients to prepare stuff for
     making paper;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, grinding/wood
  Operator, chipper/paper pulp
  Operator, paper-pulp plant

8162  STEAM-ENGINE AND BOILER OPERATORS
 

     Steam-engine and boiler operators operate and monitor steam-
engines and  boilers on land and at sea.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring coal- or oil fired steam-engines
     or boilers on land and at sea;

(b)  performing' related tasks

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, boiler/ship
  Operator, steam engine

8113  WELL DRILLERS AND BORERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Well drillers and borers and related workers erect and
operate drilling  machinery and equipment and perform related
tasks in the sinking and operation  of wells.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing and operating derrick pipe-handling devices and
     slush pumps;

(b)  operating rotary- or percussion-drilling machinery and
     equipment to drill oil or gas wells;

(c)  cleaning and servicing oil or gas wells and replacing
     pumping rods, casings and tubings;

(d)  setting up and operating drilling machinery and equipment
     to drill wells or bores other than for oil or gas;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, boring equipment/wells
  Operator, derrick/oil and gas wells
  Operator, drilling equipment/wells

8112  MINERAL-ORE- AND STONE-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mineral-ore- and stone-processing-plant operators operate
and monitor  machinery and equipment for processing mineral ore
and stone.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which crushes and breaks
     lumps of minerals and stones to required size;

(b)  operating and monitoring washing, separating, leaching,
     precipitating, filtering, extracting and combining equipment
     to wash mineral ores in order to remove waste material;

(c)  combining mineral ores with solvents to facilitate further
     processing;

(d)  separating metal or mineral concentrates from ore or
     alluvial deposits by thickening, flotation, gravity
     separation, filtration, or magnetic or electrostatic
     separation;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Floatation worker, minerals
  Machine-operator, crushing/mineral ore
  Machine-operator, milling/minerals
  Machine-operator, stone processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cutter, stone - 7113
  Splitter, stone - 7113

8333  CRANE, HOIST AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Crane, hoist and related plant operators operate and monitor
cranes and  other hoisting equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mobile or stationary cranes with
     mobile or fixed jib or boom ;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment for hoisting, lowering
     or raising men and materials on construction site or in
     mine;

(c)  operating and monitoring ski-lifts and similar equipment;

(d)  operating and monitoring machinery used to haul ferry or
     barge with goods, passengers and vehicles across short
     stretches of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machinery to open and close bridge
     for the passage of road and water traffic;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, crane
  Operator, hoist

3132  BROADCASTING AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT OPERATORS 
     Broadcasting and telecommunications equipment operators
control technical  functioning of equipment for transmitting
radio and television broadcasts of  prerecorded or live images
and sounds, as well as other types of telecommunications signals
on land and sea or in aircraft.
     
     Tasks include -

(a)   controlling transmitting and broadcasting systems and
      satellite systems for radio and television programmes;

(b)   controlling radio communications systems, satellite
      services and multiplex systems on land and sea and in
      aircraft;

(c)   controlling cinema projection equipment;

(d)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of
      broadcasting, telecommunications terminals and transmission
      systems, in order to identify and solve problems arising
in
      the course of their work and maintain equipment;

(e)   keeping logs of operations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, broadcasting equipment/ radio
  Operator, telecommunications equipment
  Operator, transmitting equipment/television

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Mechanic, electronics - 7243
  Technician, engineering/telecommunications - 3114

8332  EARTH-MOVING- AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Earth-moving- and related plant operators operate and
monitor machines to  excavate, grade, level and compact earth or
similar materials and lay surfaces  of asphalt and concrete.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring excavating machines, equipped with
     moveable shovel, grab-bucket or dragline bucket, to excavate
     and move earth, rock, sand, gravel or similar materials, or
     to tear down buildings or other structures;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines for digging trenches for
     sewers, drainage, water, oil, gas or similar pipelines;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines equipped with concave
     steel blade to move, distribute and level earth, sand, snow
     and other materials;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment to remove sand, gravel
     and mud from bottom of body of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines for hammering wooden,
     concrete or steel piles into ground;

(f)  operating and monitoring power roller to compact and smooth
     layers of materials in making roads, pavements and similar
     work;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which spread and smooth
     concrete or bituminous or tar preparations to construct
     roadways, roads or similar work;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, bulldozer
  Operator, excavator
  Operator, pile-driver
  Operator, road-roller

8159  CHEMICAL-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-processing-plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 815, Chemical-processing
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment
which treat chemical  solutions with bleaching reagents, produce
coke or gas from coal, extrude and  form natural or synthetic
polymers into synthetic fibres, produce fertilisers,  or extract
and process radioactive materials.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which treats chemical
     solutions with bleaching reagents;

(b)  operating and monitoring plant which produces coke or gas
     from coal;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which extrudes or forms
     natural or synthetic polymers into synthetic fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring fertiliser plant equipment;

(e)  operating and monitoring plant which separates and extracts
     radioactive materials from their ores or processes such
     materials;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, coke production plant
  Operator, fertiliser plant
  Operator, synthetic-fibre production plant

8152  CHEMICAL-HEAT-TREATING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Chemical-heat-treating-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which cook, roast and provide other
types of heat treatment in  chemical and related processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which cook
     materials in order to purify, mix or compound them, give
     them special properties or effect chemical changes in them;

(b)  operating and monitoring ovens, kilns or similar devices
     which heat substances in order to dry them, give them
     special properties or effect chemical changes in them ;

(c)  operating and monitoring driers for the processing of
     chemicals and related materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Kiln-operator, chemical and related processes
  Operator, cement production plant
  Operator, roasting equipment/chemical and related
        processes

8159  CHEMICAL-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-processing-plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 815, Chemical-processing
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment
which treat chemical  solutions with bleaching reagents, produce
coke or gas from coal, extrude and  form natural or synthetic
polymers into synthetic fibres, produce fertilisers,  or extract
and process radioactive materials.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which treats chemical
     solutions with bleaching reagents;

(b)  operating and monitoring plant which produces coke or gas
     from coal;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which extrudes or forms
     natural or synthetic polymers into synthetic fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring fertiliser plant equipment;

(e)  operating and monitoring plant which separates and extracts
     radioactive materials from their ores or processes such
     materials;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, coke production plant
  Operator, fertiliser plant
  Operator, synthetic-fibre production plant

8333  CRANE, HOIST AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Crane, hoist and related plant operators operate and monitor
cranes and  other hoisting equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mobile or stationary cranes with
     mobile or fixed jib or boom ;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment for hoisting, lowering
     or raising men and materials on construction site or in
     mine;

(c)  operating and monitoring ski-lifts and similar equipment;

(d)  operating and monitoring machinery used to haul ferry or
     barge with goods, passengers and vehicles across short
     stretches of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machinery to open and close bridge
     for the passage of road and water traffic;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, crane
  Operator, hoist

8152  CHEMICAL-HEAT-TREATING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Chemical-heat-treating-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which cook, roast and provide other
types of heat treatment in  chemical and related processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which cook
     materials in order to purify, mix or compound them, give
     them special properties or effect chemical changes in them;

(b)  operating and monitoring ovens, kilns or similar devices
     which heat substances in order to dry them, give them
     special properties or effect chemical changes in them ;

(c)  operating and monitoring driers for the processing of
     chemicals and related materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Kiln-operator, chemical and related processes
  Operator, cement production plant
  Operator, roasting equipment/chemical and related
        processes

8231  RUBBER-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Rubber-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  knead and blend rubber and rubber compounds, and
produce various components  and products, from natural and
synthetic rubber, such as moulded footwear,  domestic articles,
insulating materials, industrial accessories, or tyres for 
bicycles, automobiles, tractors, aircraft and other vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which knead, mix and blend
     rubber and rubber compounds for further processing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which produce sheets of
     rubber or rubberised fabric by a rolling process ;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude compounded
     rubber or shape vulcanised rubber by moulding

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which build up tires on
     a form, vulcanise tires and mould or rebuild used tires;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, extruding/rubber
  Machine-operator, milling/rubber
  Machine-operator, tyre production

8264  BLEACHING-, DYEING- AND CLEANING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 


     Bleaching-, dyeing- and cleaning-machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which bleach, dye, wash and otherwise treat
fibres, yarn, or cloth or dry clean textile, fur and leather
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which treat textile
     products to make them lighter in colour or to give them a
     specific colour;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which wash or dry-clean
     textile, fur or leather products to remove dirt, impurities,
     excess chemicals or natural gum;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which shrink cloth or
     strengthen the weave by interlocking the fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which impregnate textiles
     with chemicals to render them waterproof;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which treat silk to give
     it body and weight;

(f)  operating and monitoring machines which press, stretch, or
     impart lustre, or other type of finish to textiles;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dry-cleaning
  Machine-operator, dyeing/textile fibres
  Machine-operator, laundering
  Machine-operator, pressing/laundry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Launderer, hand - 91 33
  Presser, hand - 91 33

3131  PHOTOGRAPHERS AND IMAGE AND SOUND RECORDING EQUIPMENT
OPERATORS 
     Photographers and image and sound recording equipment
operators take  photographs, control motion picture and video
cameras and other equipment to  record and edit images and sound.

 
    Tasks include -

(a)   taking photographs for advertising, or other commercial,
      industrial or scientific purposes and to illustrate stories
      and articles in newspapers, magazines and other
      publications;

(b)   taking portrait photographs of persons and groups of
      persons;

(c)   setting and operating motion picture, video, microscopic
      and other specialised cameras, including those for aerial
      photography, to record images;

(d)   controlling equipment to record sound for motion pictures,
      videotapes, gramophone records, audio tapes, digital discs,
      direct broadcasting or other purposes.,

(e)   controlling equipment to edit and mix image and sound
      recordings to ensure satisfactory quality and to create
      special image and sound effects;

(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of image and
      sound recording and editing in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, camera/motion picture
  Operator, recording equipment/sound
  Operator, studio equipment/television
  Photographer

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Mechanic, electronics - 7243
  Photographer, photogravure - 7343
  Photolithographer - 7343
  Repairer, photographic equipment 7311

8123  METAL-HEAT-TREATING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Metal-heat-treating-plant operators operate and monitor
plant altering  the physical properties of metal objects by
heating, cooling and chemical  treatment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring furnaces which heat and cool metal
     objects to relieve internal stresses, restore ductility and
     refine grain structure;

(b)  operating and monitoring furnaces which harden steel
     objects;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which imparts a hard skin and
     tough, ductile core to steel objects by treating them with
     chemicals, heating and quenching or cooling them;

(d)  operating and monitoring furnaces which reheat hardened
     steel objects to relieve stresses and to impart toughness;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Annealer
  Furnace-operator, hardening/metal
  Furnace-operator, heat-treating/metal

8276  SUGAR PRODUCTION MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Sugar production machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  process sugar-cane and sugar-beet and produce
refined sugar

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which crush sugar-cane or
     extract liquor from sugar-beet;

(b)  operating and monitoring tanks used to purify sugar liquor
     or produce sugar crystals from hot sugar liquor;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which refine sugar-beet
     or sugar-cane by a continuous process;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     sugar juices from maple, palm and other vegetable sources'.

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which process honey;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, sugar production

8152  CHEMICAL-HEAT-TREATING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Chemical-heat-treating-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which cook, roast and provide other
types of heat treatment in  chemical and related processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which cook
     materials in order to purify, mix or compound them, give
     them special properties or effect chemical changes in them;

(b)  operating and monitoring ovens, kilns or similar devices
     which heat substances in order to dry them, give them
     special properties or effect chemical changes in them ;

(c)  operating and monitoring driers for the processing of
     chemicals and related materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Kiln-operator, chemical and related processes
  Operator, cement production plant
  Operator, roasting equipment/chemical and related
        processes

8153  CHEMICAL-FILTERING- AND SEPARATING-EQUIPMENT OPERATORS
 

     Chemical-filtering- and separating-equipment operators
operate and  monitor machines and equipment which filter and
separate chemicals and related  materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment in which solutions are
     forced, under pressure, through a filtering unit;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment in which solutions are
     vacuum-drawn through filtering media fitted to a rotating
     drum;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which separate substances
     by centrifugal force;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment which removes sediment
     and water from crude oil;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, separator/chemical and related processes
  Operator, treating equipment/crude oil
  Filter-press operator, chemical and related materials

8333  CRANE, HOIST AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Crane, hoist and related plant operators operate and monitor
cranes and  other hoisting equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mobile or stationary cranes with
     mobile or fixed jib or boom ;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment for hoisting, lowering
     or raising men and materials on construction site or in
     mine;

(c)  operating and monitoring ski-lifts and similar equipment;

(d)  operating and monitoring machinery used to haul ferry or
     barge with goods, passengers and vehicles across short
     stretches of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machinery to open and close bridge
     for the passage of road and water traffic;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, crane
  Operator, hoist

8152  CHEMICAL-HEAT-TREATING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Chemical-heat-treating-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which cook, roast and provide other
types of heat treatment in  chemical and related processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which cook
     materials in order to purify, mix or compound them, give
     them special properties or effect chemical changes in them;

(b)  operating and monitoring ovens, kilns or similar devices
     which heat substances in order to dry them, give them
     special properties or effect chemical changes in them ;

(c)  operating and monitoring driers for the processing of
     chemicals and related materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Kiln-operator, chemical and related processes
  Operator, cement production plant
  Operator, roasting equipment/chemical and related
        processes

8159  CHEMICAL-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-processing-plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 815, Chemical-processing
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment
which treat chemical  solutions with bleaching reagents, produce
coke or gas from coal, extrude and  form natural or synthetic
polymers into synthetic fibres, produce fertilisers,  or extract
and process radioactive materials.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which treats chemical
     solutions with bleaching reagents;

(b)  operating and monitoring plant which produces coke or gas
     from coal;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which extrudes or forms
     natural or synthetic polymers into synthetic fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring fertiliser plant equipment;

(e)  operating and monitoring plant which separates and extracts
     radioactive materials from their ores or processes such
     materials;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, coke production plant
  Operator, fertiliser plant
  Operator, synthetic-fibre production plant

8142  PAPER-PULP PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Paper-pulp plant operators operate and monitor machinery and
equipment  which converts materials such as wood, rags, esparto,
straw, scrap-pulp and  paper into stock for use in papermaking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring chipper and grinding machines which
     reduce logs to pulp;

(b)  operating and monitoring digesters which produce pulp from
     materials such as wood, rags, esparto, straw or scrap-pulp
     and scrap paper;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which bleach wood pulp,
     rags, esparto, straw or scrap-pulp and scrap paper;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which mix, beat and
     hydrate pulp and other ingredients to prepare stuff for
     making paper;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, grinding/wood
  Operator, chipper/paper pulp
  Operator, paper-pulp plant

8264  BLEACHING-, DYEING- AND CLEANING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 


     Bleaching-, dyeing- and cleaning-machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which bleach, dye, wash and otherwise treat
fibres, yarn, or cloth or dry clean textile, fur and leather
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which treat textile
     products to make them lighter in colour or to give them a
     specific colour;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which wash or dry-clean
     textile, fur or leather products to remove dirt, impurities,
     excess chemicals or natural gum;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which shrink cloth or
     strengthen the weave by interlocking the fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which impregnate textiles
     with chemicals to render them waterproof;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which treat silk to give
     it body and weight;

(f)  operating and monitoring machines which press, stretch, or
     impart lustre, or other type of finish to textiles;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dry-cleaning
  Machine-operator, dyeing/textile fibres
  Machine-operator, laundering
  Machine-operator, pressing/laundry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Launderer, hand - 91 33
  Presser, hand - 91 33

8223  METAL FINISHING-, PLATING AND COATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Metal finishing-, plating- and coating-machine operators
operate and  monitor equipment which finishes, plates and coats
metal articles or parts, in  order to give them improved
resistance to corrosion and abrasion, for  decorative purposes,
or to impart electrical or magnetic properties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which cleans metal
     articles in preparation for electroplating, galvanising,
     enamelling or similar processes;

(b)  operating and monitoring electroplating equipment;

(c)  operating and monitoring hot-dip equipment used to coat iron
     and steel products

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which automatically coat
     wire with non ferrous metal

(e)  operating and monitoring equipment used to spray molten
     metal or other substances on metal products to provide a
     protective or decorative coating or to build up worn or
     damaged surfaces;

(f)  operating and monitoring equipment used to impart a rust-
     resistant finish to metal articles by treating them with
     chemicals and heating them;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, coating/metal
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal
  Machine-operator, plating/metal

8264  BLEACHING-, DYEING- AND CLEANING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 


     Bleaching-, dyeing- and cleaning-machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which bleach, dye, wash and otherwise treat
fibres, yarn, or cloth or dry clean textile, fur and leather
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which treat textile
     products to make them lighter in colour or to give them a
     specific colour;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which wash or dry-clean
     textile, fur or leather products to remove dirt, impurities,
     excess chemicals or natural gum;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which shrink cloth or
     strengthen the weave by interlocking the fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which impregnate textiles
     with chemicals to render them waterproof;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which treat silk to give
     it body and weight;

(f)  operating and monitoring machines which press, stretch, or
     impart lustre, or other type of finish to textiles;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dry-cleaning
  Machine-operator, dyeing/textile fibres
  Machine-operator, laundering
  Machine-operator, pressing/laundry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Launderer, hand - 91 33
  Presser, hand - 91 33

8159  CHEMICAL-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-processing-plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 815, Chemical-processing
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment
which treat chemical  solutions with bleaching reagents, produce
coke or gas from coal, extrude and  form natural or synthetic
polymers into synthetic fibres, produce fertilisers,  or extract
and process radioactive materials.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which treats chemical
     solutions with bleaching reagents;

(b)  operating and monitoring plant which produces coke or gas
     from coal;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which extrudes or forms
     natural or synthetic polymers into synthetic fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring fertiliser plant equipment;

(e)  operating and monitoring plant which separates and extracts
     radioactive materials from their ores or processes such
     materials;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, coke production plant
  Operator, fertiliser plant
  Operator, synthetic-fibre production plant

8331  MOTORISED FARM AND FORESTRY PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Motorised farm and forestry plant operators drive, tend,
operate and  monitor one or more types of motorised, mobile
machinery or equipment used in  farming or forestry operations.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending tractor or self-propelled ploughing,
     planting, harvesting, baling or other special-purpose farm
     machinery, or similar tractor-drawn equipment;

(b)  driving and tending tractor or self-propelled clearing,
     planting, harvesting, timber-carrying or other special-
     purpose forestry machinery;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, timber carrier
  Driver, tractor
  Operator, harvester
  Operator, motorised farm equipment

8143  PAPERMAKING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Papermaking-plant operators operate and monitor machinery
and equipment  which makes paper, paper board and sheet pulp from
pulp stock.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring section of papermaking machinery
     and equipment in which wet pulp is formed into paper or in
     which paper is dried, calendered, wound, slit and rewound;

(b)  operating and monitoring supercalenders used to impart gloss
     and finish to surface of paper;

(c)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment used to
     glaze or impregnate paper with coating mixture;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, papermaking plant
  Operator, supercalender

8155  PETROLEUM- AND NATURAL GAS-REFINING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Petroleum- and natural-gas-refining plant operators operate
and monitor  plant which refines, distils and treats petroleum,
petroleum-based products  and by-products, or natural gas.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which removes sulphur from
     petroleum and petroleum-based products, and byproducts;

(b)  operating and monitoring pumps which circulate petroleum
     products or water and chemical solutions through refinery;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which distil or refine
     petroleum products;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend petrol with
     chemicals and other additives;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which refine or otherwise
     treat natural gas,

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, blender/petroleum and natural gas refining
        (ethyl)
  Operator, paraffin plant
  Operator, still/petroleum and natural gas refining

8163  INCINERATOR, WATER-TREATMENT AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS

 

     Incinerator, water-treatment and related plant operators
operate and  monitor various types of plant, such as
incinerators, water treatment plant,  air and gas compressors,
pumping stations, refrigeration or heating and  ventilation
systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring incinerator machinery and equipment
     which burn garbage or other waste materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which
     purify and clarify water for human consumption or use and
     later disposal into natural water systems;

(c)  operating and monitoring air and gas compressors';

(d)  operating and monitoring pumping stations for transferring
     liquids, gases, semi-liquids and powdered substances from
     one location to another;

(e)  operating and monitoring refrigeration systems for cool or
     cold storage, or industrial processes;

(f)  operating and monitoring heating and ventilation systems ;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, incinerator/refuse disposal
  Operator, pumping-station/water
  Operator, water purification plant

3122  COMPUTER EQUIPMENT OPERATORS 
     Computer equipment operators operate and control peripheral
and related  computer equipment used for recording, storing,
transmitting and processing  digital data and for displaying data
as letters, numbers or graphs on screen,  paper or film.

     Tasks include -

(a)   operating and controlling peripheral and related computer
      equipment which is used to record, store, transmit and
      process digital data and to display data as letters,
      numbers or graphs on screen, paper or film, as requested
      by users;

(b)   organising computing jobs as specified by users to ensure
      timely, safe and efficient execution;

(c)   mounting magnetic tapes and disks as needed for processing
      or recording data in machine-readable form and keeping
      library of disks and tapes;

(d)   keeping log of computing operations;

(e)   performing back-up operations according to regular
      procedures;


(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of computers
      and peripheral equipment in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of their use and making
      minor repairs and adjustments;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the  occupations  classified here:

  Operator, computer peripheral equipment
  Operator, computer peripheral equipment/high-speed
        printer

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Mechanic, electronics/computer - 7243
  Technician, engineering/electronics - 3114

8212  CEMENT AND OTHER MINERAL PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Cement and other mineral products machine operators operate
and monitor  extrusion, moulding, mixing, grinding and cutting
machines which manufacture  and finish various precast concrete
and stone products, or which make cast  stone for building
purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring extrusion, moulding, grinding and
     cutting machines which manufacture and finish various
     precast concrete and stone products, such as flagstones,
     fencing posts, moulded pipe sections and trench liners,
     walling and partition slabs, building components, cable
     conduits, fume and dust extraction conduits;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which mix sand, gravel,
     cement and water to make concrete ;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cast-concrete products
  Machine-operator, cast-stone products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln-operator, cement production 8152
  Machine-operator, stone processing 8112

8112  MINERAL-ORE- AND STONE-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mineral-ore- and stone-processing-plant operators operate
and monitor  machinery and equipment for processing mineral ore
and stone.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which crushes and breaks
     lumps of minerals and stones to required size;

(b)  operating and monitoring washing, separating, leaching,
     precipitating, filtering, extracting and combining equipment
     to wash mineral ores in order to remove waste material;

(c)  combining mineral ores with solvents to facilitate further
     processing;

(d)  separating metal or mineral concentrates from ore or
     alluvial deposits by thickening, flotation, gravity
     separation, filtration, or magnetic or electrostatic
     separation;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Floatation worker, minerals
  Machine-operator, crushing/mineral ore
  Machine-operator, milling/minerals
  Machine-operator, stone processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cutter, stone - 7113
  Splitter, stone - 7113

8155  PETROLEUM- AND NATURAL GAS-REFINING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Petroleum- and natural-gas-refining plant operators operate
and monitor  plant which refines, distils and treats petroleum,
petroleum-based products  and by-products, or natural gas.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which removes sulphur from
     petroleum and petroleum-based products, and byproducts;

(b)  operating and monitoring pumps which circulate petroleum
     products or water and chemical solutions through refinery;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which distil or refine
     petroleum products;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend petrol with
     chemicals and other additives;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which refine or otherwise
     treat natural gas,

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, blender/petroleum and natural gas refining
        (ethyl)
  Operator, paraffin plant
  Operator, still/petroleum and natural gas refining

3132  BROADCASTING AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT OPERATORS 
     Broadcasting and telecommunications equipment operators
control technical  functioning of equipment for transmitting
radio and television broadcasts of  prerecorded or live images
and sounds, as well as other types of telecommunications signals
on land and sea or in aircraft.
     
     Tasks include -

(a)   controlling transmitting and broadcasting systems and
      satellite systems for radio and television programmes;

(b)   controlling radio communications systems, satellite
      services and multiplex systems on land and sea and in
      aircraft;

(c)   controlling cinema projection equipment;

(d)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of
      broadcasting, telecommunications terminals and transmission
      systems, in order to identify and solve problems arising
in
      the course of their work and maintain equipment;

(e)   keeping logs of operations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, broadcasting equipment/ radio
  Operator, telecommunications equipment
  Operator, transmitting equipment/television

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Mechanic, electronics - 7243
  Technician, engineering/telecommunications - 3114

8154  CHEMICAL-STILL AND REACTOR OPERATORS (EXCEPT PETROLEUM AND NATURAL GAS)
 

     Still and reactor operators (except petroleum and natural
gas)         operate  and monitor equipment which distils and
             refines chemicals, except petroleum.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment in which crude liquid
     chemicals are treated to refine or separate them into their
     chemical constituents;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment which performs a sequence
     of operations in a chemical reaction process;

(c)  operating and monitoring evaporation tanks, vacuum pans or
     similar devices to concentrate solutions and suspensions;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, converter/chemical processes (except petroleum
        and natural gas)
  Operator, reactor/chemical processes (except petroleum
        and natural gas)
  Operator, still/turpentine

8333  CRANE, HOIST AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Crane, hoist and related plant operators operate and monitor
cranes and  other hoisting equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mobile or stationary cranes with
     mobile or fixed jib or boom ;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment for hoisting, lowering
     or raising men and materials on construction site or in
     mine;

(c)  operating and monitoring ski-lifts and similar equipment;

(d)  operating and monitoring machinery used to haul ferry or
     barge with goods, passengers and vehicles across short
     stretches of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machinery to open and close bridge
     for the passage of road and water traffic;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, crane
  Operator, hoist

8152  CHEMICAL-HEAT-TREATING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Chemical-heat-treating-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which cook, roast and provide other
types of heat treatment in  chemical and related processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which cook
     materials in order to purify, mix or compound them, give
     them special properties or effect chemical changes in them;

(b)  operating and monitoring ovens, kilns or similar devices
     which heat substances in order to dry them, give them
     special properties or effect chemical changes in them ;

(c)  operating and monitoring driers for the processing of
     chemicals and related materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Kiln-operator, chemical and related processes
  Operator, cement production plant
  Operator, roasting equipment/chemical and related
        processes

8278  BREWERS, WINE AND OTHER BEVERAGE  MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Brewers, wine and other beverage machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which mix, press, or malt and ferment
grains and fruit to make malt  liquors, wine and other alcoholic
or non-alcoholic beverages, except fruit and  vegetable juices.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which process barley and
     other grains used in making distilled and malt liquors, and
     controlling the fermentation process,

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which process grapes and
     other fruit used in making wines, and controlling the
     fermentation process;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which increase or reduce the
     alcohol content of alcoholic beverages;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend wines and
     liquors to obtain desired tastes and flavours;
(e)  operating and monitoring machines which make non-alcoholic
     beverages, except fruit and vegetable juices;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Brewer
  Machine-operator, malting/spirits
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, fruit juice production - 8275
  Taster, wine - 7415

8163  INCINERATOR, WATER-TREATMENT AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS

 

     Incinerator, water-treatment and related plant operators
operate and  monitor various types of plant, such as
incinerators, water treatment plant,  air and gas compressors,
pumping stations, refrigeration or heating and  ventilation
systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring incinerator machinery and equipment
     which burn garbage or other waste materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which
     purify and clarify water for human consumption or use and
     later disposal into natural water systems;

(c)  operating and monitoring air and gas compressors';

(d)  operating and monitoring pumping stations for transferring
     liquids, gases, semi-liquids and powdered substances from
     one location to another;

(e)  operating and monitoring refrigeration systems for cool or
     cold storage, or industrial processes;

(f)  operating and monitoring heating and ventilation systems ;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, incinerator/refuse disposal
  Operator, pumping-station/water
  Operator, water purification plant

8333  CRANE, HOIST AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Crane, hoist and related plant operators operate and monitor
cranes and  other hoisting equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mobile or stationary cranes with
     mobile or fixed jib or boom ;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment for hoisting, lowering
     or raising men and materials on construction site or in
     mine;

(c)  operating and monitoring ski-lifts and similar equipment;

(d)  operating and monitoring machinery used to haul ferry or
     barge with goods, passengers and vehicles across short
     stretches of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machinery to open and close bridge
     for the passage of road and water traffic;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, crane
  Operator, hoist

8276  SUGAR PRODUCTION MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Sugar production machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  process sugar-cane and sugar-beet and produce
refined sugar

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which crush sugar-cane or
     extract liquor from sugar-beet;

(b)  operating and monitoring tanks used to purify sugar liquor
     or produce sugar crystals from hot sugar liquor;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which refine sugar-beet
     or sugar-cane by a continuous process;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     sugar juices from maple, palm and other vegetable sources'.

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which process honey;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, sugar production

8141  WOOD-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Wood-processing-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment for sawing wood, cutting veneer and
making plywood, and otherwise  prepare wood for further use.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring log in-feed and conveyor systems;

(b)  operating and monitoring head saws, resaws and multiblade
     saws to saw logs, cants, flitches, slabs or wings and remove
     rough edges from sawn timber;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut veneer;

(d)  operating and monitoring plywood core-laying machines and
     hot-plate plywood presses;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, band-saw
  Operator, sawmill
  Operator, wood-processing plant
  Press-operator, plywood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Wood seasoner - 7421
  Wood treater - 7421

8153  CHEMICAL-FILTERING- AND SEPARATING-EQUIPMENT OPERATORS
 

     Chemical-filtering- and separating-equipment operators
operate and  monitor machines and equipment which filter and
separate chemicals and related  materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment in which solutions are
     forced, under pressure, through a filtering unit;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment in which solutions are
     vacuum-drawn through filtering media fitted to a rotating
     drum;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which separate substances
     by centrifugal force;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment which removes sediment
     and water from crude oil;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, separator/chemical and related processes
  Operator, treating equipment/crude oil
  Filter-press operator, chemical and related materials

8113  WELL DRILLERS AND BORERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Well drillers and borers and related workers erect and
operate drilling  machinery and equipment and perform related
tasks in the sinking and operation  of wells.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing and operating derrick pipe-handling devices and
     slush pumps;

(b)  operating rotary- or percussion-drilling machinery and
     equipment to drill oil or gas wells;

(c)  cleaning and servicing oil or gas wells and replacing
     pumping rods, casings and tubings;

(d)  setting up and operating drilling machinery and equipment
     to drill wells or bores other than for oil or gas;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, boring equipment/wells
  Operator, derrick/oil and gas wells
  Operator, drilling equipment/wells

8163  INCINERATOR, WATER-TREATMENT AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS

 

     Incinerator, water-treatment and related plant operators
operate and  monitor various types of plant, such as
incinerators, water treatment plant,  air and gas compressors,
pumping stations, refrigeration or heating and  ventilation
systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring incinerator machinery and equipment
     which burn garbage or other waste materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which
     purify and clarify water for human consumption or use and
     later disposal into natural water systems;

(c)  operating and monitoring air and gas compressors';

(d)  operating and monitoring pumping stations for transferring
     liquids, gases, semi-liquids and powdered substances from
     one location to another;

(e)  operating and monitoring refrigeration systems for cool or
     cold storage, or industrial processes;

(f)  operating and monitoring heating and ventilation systems ;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, incinerator/refuse disposal
  Operator, pumping-station/water
  Operator, water purification plant

7341  COMPOSITORS, TYPESETTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Compositors, typesetters and related workers set and arrange
printing  type by hand or machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting type by hand and printing copies with simple
     machines;

(b)  operating linotype, monotype and typecasting machines;

(c)  arranging set-up of type and spacing material and
     illustration blocks to make pages;

(d)  arranging pages in sequence for printing;

(e)  operating electronic key-boarding machines which enable
     characters to be converted into film, sensitised tape or
     paper for subsequent photo plate-making;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Compositor, printing
  Printer
  Typesetter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Press-operator, printing/cylinder 8251

8139  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers glass and ceramics plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 813, Glass and ceramics
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment used
to mix ingredients for  glass-making or for the preparation of
clay, glaze and abrasives, or which  extrude molten glass in
order to form fibreglass filaments.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which mix ingredients for
     glass-making;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare clay for the
     production of ceramics and bricks;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines for making glaze or
     abrasives

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude molten glass
     to form fibreglass filaments ;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, mixing/clay
  Machine-operator, mixing/glass

8276  SUGAR PRODUCTION MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Sugar production machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  process sugar-cane and sugar-beet and produce
refined sugar

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which crush sugar-cane or
     extract liquor from sugar-beet;

(b)  operating and monitoring tanks used to purify sugar liquor
     or produce sugar crystals from hot sugar liquor;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which refine sugar-beet
     or sugar-cane by a continuous process;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     sugar juices from maple, palm and other vegetable sources'.

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which process honey;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, sugar production

8142  PAPER-PULP PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Paper-pulp plant operators operate and monitor machinery and
equipment  which converts materials such as wood, rags, esparto,
straw, scrap-pulp and  paper into stock for use in papermaking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring chipper and grinding machines which
     reduce logs to pulp;

(b)  operating and monitoring digesters which produce pulp from
     materials such as wood, rags, esparto, straw or scrap-pulp
     and scrap paper;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which bleach wood pulp,
     rags, esparto, straw or scrap-pulp and scrap paper;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which mix, beat and
     hydrate pulp and other ingredients to prepare stuff for
     making paper;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, grinding/wood
  Operator, chipper/paper pulp
  Operator, paper-pulp plant

8332  EARTH-MOVING- AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Earth-moving- and related plant operators operate and
monitor machines to  excavate, grade, level and compact earth or
similar materials and lay surfaces  of asphalt and concrete.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring excavating machines, equipped with
     moveable shovel, grab-bucket or dragline bucket, to excavate
     and move earth, rock, sand, gravel or similar materials, or
     to tear down buildings or other structures;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines for digging trenches for
     sewers, drainage, water, oil, gas or similar pipelines;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines equipped with concave
     steel blade to move, distribute and level earth, sand, snow
     and other materials;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment to remove sand, gravel
     and mud from bottom of body of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines for hammering wooden,
     concrete or steel piles into ground;

(f)  operating and monitoring power roller to compact and smooth
     layers of materials in making roads, pavements and similar
     work;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which spread and smooth
     concrete or bituminous or tar preparations to construct
     roadways, roads or similar work;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, bulldozer
  Operator, excavator
  Operator, pile-driver
  Operator, road-roller

8154  CHEMICAL-STILL AND REACTOR OPERATORS (EXCEPT PETROLEUM AND NATURAL GAS)
 

     Still and reactor operators (except petroleum and natural
gas)         operate  and monitor equipment which distils and
             refines chemicals, except petroleum.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment in which crude liquid
     chemicals are treated to refine or separate them into their
     chemical constituents;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment which performs a sequence
     of operations in a chemical reaction process;

(c)  operating and monitoring evaporation tanks, vacuum pans or
     similar devices to concentrate solutions and suspensions;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, converter/chemical processes (except petroleum
        and natural gas)
  Operator, reactor/chemical processes (except petroleum
        and natural gas)
  Operator, still/turpentine

8155  PETROLEUM- AND NATURAL GAS-REFINING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Petroleum- and natural-gas-refining plant operators operate
and monitor  plant which refines, distils and treats petroleum,
petroleum-based products  and by-products, or natural gas.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which removes sulphur from
     petroleum and petroleum-based products, and byproducts;

(b)  operating and monitoring pumps which circulate petroleum
     products or water and chemical solutions through refinery;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which distil or refine
     petroleum products;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend petrol with
     chemicals and other additives;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which refine or otherwise
     treat natural gas,

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, blender/petroleum and natural gas refining
        (ethyl)
  Operator, paraffin plant
  Operator, still/petroleum and natural gas refining

8154  CHEMICAL-STILL AND REACTOR OPERATORS (EXCEPT PETROLEUM AND NATURAL GAS)
 

     Still and reactor operators (except petroleum and natural
gas)         operate  and monitor equipment which distils and
             refines chemicals, except petroleum.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment in which crude liquid
     chemicals are treated to refine or separate them into their
     chemical constituents;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment which performs a sequence
     of operations in a chemical reaction process;

(c)  operating and monitoring evaporation tanks, vacuum pans or
     similar devices to concentrate solutions and suspensions;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, converter/chemical processes (except petroleum
        and natural gas)
  Operator, reactor/chemical processes (except petroleum
        and natural gas)
  Operator, still/turpentine

8221  PHARMACEUTICAL- AND TOILETRY-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Pharmaceutical- and toiletry-products machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which process a variety of
chemicals and other ingredients  used in the production of
pharmaceuticals and toiletries.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines for moulding, filtering,
     fermenting, heating, mixing, grinding, filling and sealing
     materials used in the production of pharmaceuticals,
     toiletries, detergents and related products;

(b)  operating controls to regulate temperature, pressure, flow
     and speed of operation ;

(c)  cleaning and disinfecting equipment;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, detergent production
  Machine-operator, pharmaceutical products
  Machine-operator, toiletries production

8333  CRANE, HOIST AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Crane, hoist and related plant operators operate and monitor
cranes and  other hoisting equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mobile or stationary cranes with
     mobile or fixed jib or boom ;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment for hoisting, lowering
     or raising men and materials on construction site or in
     mine;

(c)  operating and monitoring ski-lifts and similar equipment;

(d)  operating and monitoring machinery used to haul ferry or
     barge with goods, passengers and vehicles across short
     stretches of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machinery to open and close bridge
     for the passage of road and water traffic;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, crane
  Operator, hoist

8332  EARTH-MOVING- AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Earth-moving- and related plant operators operate and
monitor machines to  excavate, grade, level and compact earth or
similar materials and lay surfaces  of asphalt and concrete.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring excavating machines, equipped with
     moveable shovel, grab-bucket or dragline bucket, to excavate
     and move earth, rock, sand, gravel or similar materials, or
     to tear down buildings or other structures;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines for digging trenches for
     sewers, drainage, water, oil, gas or similar pipelines;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines equipped with concave
     steel blade to move, distribute and level earth, sand, snow
     and other materials;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment to remove sand, gravel
     and mud from bottom of body of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines for hammering wooden,
     concrete or steel piles into ground;

(f)  operating and monitoring power roller to compact and smooth
     layers of materials in making roads, pavements and similar
     work;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which spread and smooth
     concrete or bituminous or tar preparations to construct
     roadways, roads or similar work;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, bulldozer
  Operator, excavator
  Operator, pile-driver
  Operator, road-roller

8152  CHEMICAL-HEAT-TREATING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Chemical-heat-treating-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which cook, roast and provide other
types of heat treatment in  chemical and related processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which cook
     materials in order to purify, mix or compound them, give
     them special properties or effect chemical changes in them;

(b)  operating and monitoring ovens, kilns or similar devices
     which heat substances in order to dry them, give them
     special properties or effect chemical changes in them ;

(c)  operating and monitoring driers for the processing of
     chemicals and related materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Kiln-operator, chemical and related processes
  Operator, cement production plant
  Operator, roasting equipment/chemical and related
        processes

8113  WELL DRILLERS AND BORERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Well drillers and borers and related workers erect and
operate drilling  machinery and equipment and perform related
tasks in the sinking and operation  of wells.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing and operating derrick pipe-handling devices and
     slush pumps;

(b)  operating rotary- or percussion-drilling machinery and
     equipment to drill oil or gas wells;

(c)  cleaning and servicing oil or gas wells and replacing
     pumping rods, casings and tubings;

(d)  setting up and operating drilling machinery and equipment
     to drill wells or bores other than for oil or gas;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, boring equipment/wells
  Operator, derrick/oil and gas wells
  Operator, drilling equipment/wells

8332  EARTH-MOVING- AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Earth-moving- and related plant operators operate and
monitor machines to  excavate, grade, level and compact earth or
similar materials and lay surfaces  of asphalt and concrete.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring excavating machines, equipped with
     moveable shovel, grab-bucket or dragline bucket, to excavate
     and move earth, rock, sand, gravel or similar materials, or
     to tear down buildings or other structures;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines for digging trenches for
     sewers, drainage, water, oil, gas or similar pipelines;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines equipped with concave
     steel blade to move, distribute and level earth, sand, snow
     and other materials;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment to remove sand, gravel
     and mud from bottom of body of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines for hammering wooden,
     concrete or steel piles into ground;

(f)  operating and monitoring power roller to compact and smooth
     layers of materials in making roads, pavements and similar
     work;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which spread and smooth
     concrete or bituminous or tar preparations to construct
     roadways, roads or similar work;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, bulldozer
  Operator, excavator
  Operator, pile-driver
  Operator, road-roller

3131  PHOTOGRAPHERS AND IMAGE AND SOUND RECORDING EQUIPMENT
OPERATORS 
     Photographers and image and sound recording equipment
operators take  photographs, control motion picture and video
cameras and other equipment to  record and edit images and sound.

 
    Tasks include -

(a)   taking photographs for advertising, or other commercial,
      industrial or scientific purposes and to illustrate stories
      and articles in newspapers, magazines and other
      publications;

(b)   taking portrait photographs of persons and groups of
      persons;

(c)   setting and operating motion picture, video, microscopic
      and other specialised cameras, including those for aerial
      photography, to record images;

(d)   controlling equipment to record sound for motion pictures,
      videotapes, gramophone records, audio tapes, digital discs,
      direct broadcasting or other purposes.,

(e)   controlling equipment to edit and mix image and sound
      recordings to ensure satisfactory quality and to create
      special image and sound effects;

(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of image and
      sound recording and editing in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, camera/motion picture
  Operator, recording equipment/sound
  Operator, studio equipment/television
  Photographer

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Mechanic, electronics - 7243
  Photographer, photogravure - 7343
  Photolithographer - 7343
  Repairer, photographic equipment 7311

8332  EARTH-MOVING- AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Earth-moving- and related plant operators operate and
monitor machines to  excavate, grade, level and compact earth or
similar materials and lay surfaces  of asphalt and concrete.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring excavating machines, equipped with
     moveable shovel, grab-bucket or dragline bucket, to excavate
     and move earth, rock, sand, gravel or similar materials, or
     to tear down buildings or other structures;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines for digging trenches for
     sewers, drainage, water, oil, gas or similar pipelines;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines equipped with concave
     steel blade to move, distribute and level earth, sand, snow
     and other materials;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment to remove sand, gravel
     and mud from bottom of body of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines for hammering wooden,
     concrete or steel piles into ground;

(f)  operating and monitoring power roller to compact and smooth
     layers of materials in making roads, pavements and similar
     work;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which spread and smooth
     concrete or bituminous or tar preparations to construct
     roadways, roads or similar work;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, bulldozer
  Operator, excavator
  Operator, pile-driver
  Operator, road-roller

8161  POWER-PRODUCTION PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Power-production plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which produce electric or other power
and control its distribution.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring coal-, oil- or natural-gas-fired 
     steam-power-generating plant;

(b)  operating and monitoring nuclear-fuelled steam-power-
     generating plant;

(c)  operating and monitoring hydroelectric-power-generating
     stations;

(d)  operating and monitoring other power generating plant, such
     as solar, tidal, geo-thermal or wind energy;

(e)  controlling power output and distribution of electricity
     from power stations;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, electric power plant
  Operator, hydroelectric power plant
  Operator, nuclear power plant
  Operator, solar power plant

3133  MEDICAL EQUIPMENT OPERATORS 
     Medical equipment operators control technical equipment used
to diagnose  or treat illnesses and disorders.

     Tasks include -

(a)   controlling technical equipment used to diagnose illnesses
      and disorders of the nervous system and organs, or in
      radiography or anaesthetics;

(b)   applying knowledge of technical equipment and some
      principles and practices of medicine in order to identify
      and solve problems arising in the course of their work and
      maintain equipment;

(c)   performing related tasks;

(d)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, electrocardiograph equipment
  Operator, medical X-ray equipment
  Operator, scanning equipment

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Mechanic, electronics - 7243

8333  CRANE, HOIST AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Crane, hoist and related plant operators operate and monitor
cranes and  other hoisting equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mobile or stationary cranes with
     mobile or fixed jib or boom ;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment for hoisting, lowering
     or raising men and materials on construction site or in
     mine;

(c)  operating and monitoring ski-lifts and similar equipment;

(d)  operating and monitoring machinery used to haul ferry or
     barge with goods, passengers and vehicles across short
     stretches of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machinery to open and close bridge
     for the passage of road and water traffic;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, crane
  Operator, hoist

8275  FRUIT-, VEGETABLE- AND NUT-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fruit-, vegetable- and nut-processing machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which extract juice from fruit and
vegetables or oil from  oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit, and
which process fruit, vegetables and  nuts by drying, cooking,
canning or freezing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which extract juice from
     fruit and vegetables by heating or pressing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     oil from oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make margarine and
     similar products from animal and vegetable oils;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare fruit,
     vegetables and nuts for further processing ;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which dry, cook, can,
     freeze or otherwise process fruit, vegetables and nuts

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fruit processing
  Machine-operator, vegetable processing
  Press-operator, edible oils
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Expeller, oil - 7414
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production - 8278
  Preserver, fruit - 7414
  Preserver, vegetable - 7414

8154  CHEMICAL-STILL AND REACTOR OPERATORS (EXCEPT PETROLEUM AND NATURAL GAS)
 

     Still and reactor operators (except petroleum and natural
gas)         operate  and monitor equipment which distils and
             refines chemicals, except petroleum.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment in which crude liquid
     chemicals are treated to refine or separate them into their
     chemical constituents;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment which performs a sequence
     of operations in a chemical reaction process;

(c)  operating and monitoring evaporation tanks, vacuum pans or
     similar devices to concentrate solutions and suspensions;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, converter/chemical processes (except petroleum
        and natural gas)
  Operator, reactor/chemical processes (except petroleum
        and natural gas)
  Operator, still/turpentine

8332  EARTH-MOVING- AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Earth-moving- and related plant operators operate and
monitor machines to  excavate, grade, level and compact earth or
similar materials and lay surfaces  of asphalt and concrete.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring excavating machines, equipped with
     moveable shovel, grab-bucket or dragline bucket, to excavate
     and move earth, rock, sand, gravel or similar materials, or
     to tear down buildings or other structures;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines for digging trenches for
     sewers, drainage, water, oil, gas or similar pipelines;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines equipped with concave
     steel blade to move, distribute and level earth, sand, snow
     and other materials;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment to remove sand, gravel
     and mud from bottom of body of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines for hammering wooden,
     concrete or steel piles into ground;

(f)  operating and monitoring power roller to compact and smooth
     layers of materials in making roads, pavements and similar
     work;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which spread and smooth
     concrete or bituminous or tar preparations to construct
     roadways, roads or similar work;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, bulldozer
  Operator, excavator
  Operator, pile-driver
  Operator, road-roller

8153  CHEMICAL-FILTERING- AND SEPARATING-EQUIPMENT OPERATORS
 

     Chemical-filtering- and separating-equipment operators
operate and  monitor machines and equipment which filter and
separate chemicals and related  materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment in which solutions are
     forced, under pressure, through a filtering unit;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment in which solutions are
     vacuum-drawn through filtering media fitted to a rotating
     drum;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which separate substances
     by centrifugal force;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment which removes sediment
     and water from crude oil;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, separator/chemical and related processes
  Operator, treating equipment/crude oil
  Filter-press operator, chemical and related materials

8154  CHEMICAL-STILL AND REACTOR OPERATORS (EXCEPT PETROLEUM AND NATURAL GAS)
 

     Still and reactor operators (except petroleum and natural
gas)         operate  and monitor equipment which distils and
             refines chemicals, except petroleum.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment in which crude liquid
     chemicals are treated to refine or separate them into their
     chemical constituents;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment which performs a sequence
     of operations in a chemical reaction process;

(c)  operating and monitoring evaporation tanks, vacuum pans or
     similar devices to concentrate solutions and suspensions;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, converter/chemical processes (except petroleum
        and natural gas)
  Operator, reactor/chemical processes (except petroleum
        and natural gas)
  Operator, still/turpentine

8278  BREWERS, WINE AND OTHER BEVERAGE  MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Brewers, wine and other beverage machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which mix, press, or malt and ferment
grains and fruit to make malt  liquors, wine and other alcoholic
or non-alcoholic beverages, except fruit and  vegetable juices.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which process barley and
     other grains used in making distilled and malt liquors, and
     controlling the fermentation process,

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which process grapes and
     other fruit used in making wines, and controlling the
     fermentation process;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which increase or reduce the
     alcohol content of alcoholic beverages;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend wines and
     liquors to obtain desired tastes and flavours;
(e)  operating and monitoring machines which make non-alcoholic
     beverages, except fruit and vegetable juices;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Brewer
  Machine-operator, malting/spirits
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, fruit juice production - 8275
  Taster, wine - 7415

8159  CHEMICAL-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-processing-plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 815, Chemical-processing
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment
which treat chemical  solutions with bleaching reagents, produce
coke or gas from coal, extrude and  form natural or synthetic
polymers into synthetic fibres, produce fertilisers,  or extract
and process radioactive materials.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which treats chemical
     solutions with bleaching reagents;

(b)  operating and monitoring plant which produces coke or gas
     from coal;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which extrudes or forms
     natural or synthetic polymers into synthetic fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring fertiliser plant equipment;

(e)  operating and monitoring plant which separates and extracts
     radioactive materials from their ores or processes such
     materials;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, coke production plant
  Operator, fertiliser plant
  Operator, synthetic-fibre production plant

8153  CHEMICAL-FILTERING- AND SEPARATING-EQUIPMENT OPERATORS
 

     Chemical-filtering- and separating-equipment operators
operate and  monitor machines and equipment which filter and
separate chemicals and related  materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment in which solutions are
     forced, under pressure, through a filtering unit;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment in which solutions are
     vacuum-drawn through filtering media fitted to a rotating
     drum;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which separate substances
     by centrifugal force;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment which removes sediment
     and water from crude oil;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, separator/chemical and related processes
  Operator, treating equipment/crude oil
  Filter-press operator, chemical and related materials

8163  INCINERATOR, WATER-TREATMENT AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS

 

     Incinerator, water-treatment and related plant operators
operate and  monitor various types of plant, such as
incinerators, water treatment plant,  air and gas compressors,
pumping stations, refrigeration or heating and  ventilation
systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring incinerator machinery and equipment
     which burn garbage or other waste materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which
     purify and clarify water for human consumption or use and
     later disposal into natural water systems;

(c)  operating and monitoring air and gas compressors';

(d)  operating and monitoring pumping stations for transferring
     liquids, gases, semi-liquids and powdered substances from
     one location to another;

(e)  operating and monitoring refrigeration systems for cool or
     cold storage, or industrial processes;

(f)  operating and monitoring heating and ventilation systems ;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, incinerator/refuse disposal
  Operator, pumping-station/water
  Operator, water purification plant

8331  MOTORISED FARM AND FORESTRY PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Motorised farm and forestry plant operators drive, tend,
operate and  monitor one or more types of motorised, mobile
machinery or equipment used in  farming or forestry operations.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending tractor or self-propelled ploughing,
     planting, harvesting, baling or other special-purpose farm
     machinery, or similar tractor-drawn equipment;

(b)  driving and tending tractor or self-propelled clearing,
     planting, harvesting, timber-carrying or other special-
     purpose forestry machinery;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, timber carrier
  Driver, tractor
  Operator, harvester
  Operator, motorised farm equipment

8163  INCINERATOR, WATER-TREATMENT AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS

 

     Incinerator, water-treatment and related plant operators
operate and  monitor various types of plant, such as
incinerators, water treatment plant,  air and gas compressors,
pumping stations, refrigeration or heating and  ventilation
systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring incinerator machinery and equipment
     which burn garbage or other waste materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which
     purify and clarify water for human consumption or use and
     later disposal into natural water systems;

(c)  operating and monitoring air and gas compressors';

(d)  operating and monitoring pumping stations for transferring
     liquids, gases, semi-liquids and powdered substances from
     one location to another;

(e)  operating and monitoring refrigeration systems for cool or
     cold storage, or industrial processes;

(f)  operating and monitoring heating and ventilation systems ;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, incinerator/refuse disposal
  Operator, pumping-station/water
  Operator, water purification plant

8264  BLEACHING-, DYEING- AND CLEANING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 


     Bleaching-, dyeing- and cleaning-machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which bleach, dye, wash and otherwise treat
fibres, yarn, or cloth or dry clean textile, fur and leather
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which treat textile
     products to make them lighter in colour or to give them a
     specific colour;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which wash or dry-clean
     textile, fur or leather products to remove dirt, impurities,
     excess chemicals or natural gum;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which shrink cloth or
     strengthen the weave by interlocking the fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which impregnate textiles
     with chemicals to render them waterproof;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which treat silk to give
     it body and weight;

(f)  operating and monitoring machines which press, stretch, or
     impart lustre, or other type of finish to textiles;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dry-cleaning
  Machine-operator, dyeing/textile fibres
  Machine-operator, laundering
  Machine-operator, pressing/laundry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Launderer, hand - 91 33
  Presser, hand - 91 33

8161  POWER-PRODUCTION PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Power-production plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which produce electric or other power
and control its distribution.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring coal-, oil- or natural-gas-fired 
     steam-power-generating plant;

(b)  operating and monitoring nuclear-fuelled steam-power-
     generating plant;

(c)  operating and monitoring hydroelectric-power-generating
     stations;

(d)  operating and monitoring other power generating plant, such
     as solar, tidal, geo-thermal or wind energy;

(e)  controlling power output and distribution of electricity
     from power stations;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, electric power plant
  Operator, hydroelectric power plant
  Operator, nuclear power plant
  Operator, solar power plant

8278  BREWERS, WINE AND OTHER BEVERAGE  MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Brewers, wine and other beverage machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which mix, press, or malt and ferment
grains and fruit to make malt  liquors, wine and other alcoholic
or non-alcoholic beverages, except fruit and  vegetable juices.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which process barley and
     other grains used in making distilled and malt liquors, and
     controlling the fermentation process,

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which process grapes and
     other fruit used in making wines, and controlling the
     fermentation process;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which increase or reduce the
     alcohol content of alcoholic beverages;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend wines and
     liquors to obtain desired tastes and flavours;
(e)  operating and monitoring machines which make non-alcoholic
     beverages, except fruit and vegetable juices;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Brewer
  Machine-operator, malting/spirits
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, fruit juice production - 8275
  Taster, wine - 7415

8332  EARTH-MOVING- AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Earth-moving- and related plant operators operate and
monitor machines to  excavate, grade, level and compact earth or
similar materials and lay surfaces  of asphalt and concrete.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring excavating machines, equipped with
     moveable shovel, grab-bucket or dragline bucket, to excavate
     and move earth, rock, sand, gravel or similar materials, or
     to tear down buildings or other structures;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines for digging trenches for
     sewers, drainage, water, oil, gas or similar pipelines;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines equipped with concave
     steel blade to move, distribute and level earth, sand, snow
     and other materials;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment to remove sand, gravel
     and mud from bottom of body of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines for hammering wooden,
     concrete or steel piles into ground;

(f)  operating and monitoring power roller to compact and smooth
     layers of materials in making roads, pavements and similar
     work;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which spread and smooth
     concrete or bituminous or tar preparations to construct
     roadways, roads or similar work;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, bulldozer
  Operator, excavator
  Operator, pile-driver
  Operator, road-roller

8221  PHARMACEUTICAL- AND TOILETRY-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Pharmaceutical- and toiletry-products machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which process a variety of
chemicals and other ingredients  used in the production of
pharmaceuticals and toiletries.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines for moulding, filtering,
     fermenting, heating, mixing, grinding, filling and sealing
     materials used in the production of pharmaceuticals,
     toiletries, detergents and related products;

(b)  operating controls to regulate temperature, pressure, flow
     and speed of operation ;

(c)  cleaning and disinfecting equipment;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, detergent production
  Machine-operator, pharmaceutical products
  Machine-operator, toiletries production

8112  MINERAL-ORE- AND STONE-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mineral-ore- and stone-processing-plant operators operate
and monitor  machinery and equipment for processing mineral ore
and stone.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which crushes and breaks
     lumps of minerals and stones to required size;

(b)  operating and monitoring washing, separating, leaching,
     precipitating, filtering, extracting and combining equipment
     to wash mineral ores in order to remove waste material;

(c)  combining mineral ores with solvents to facilitate further
     processing;

(d)  separating metal or mineral concentrates from ore or
     alluvial deposits by thickening, flotation, gravity
     separation, filtration, or magnetic or electrostatic
     separation;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Floatation worker, minerals
  Machine-operator, crushing/mineral ore
  Machine-operator, milling/minerals
  Machine-operator, stone processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cutter, stone - 7113
  Splitter, stone - 7113

8276  SUGAR PRODUCTION MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Sugar production machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  process sugar-cane and sugar-beet and produce
refined sugar

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which crush sugar-cane or
     extract liquor from sugar-beet;

(b)  operating and monitoring tanks used to purify sugar liquor
     or produce sugar crystals from hot sugar liquor;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which refine sugar-beet
     or sugar-cane by a continuous process;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     sugar juices from maple, palm and other vegetable sources'.

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which process honey;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, sugar production

8331  MOTORISED FARM AND FORESTRY PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Motorised farm and forestry plant operators drive, tend,
operate and  monitor one or more types of motorised, mobile
machinery or equipment used in  farming or forestry operations.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending tractor or self-propelled ploughing,
     planting, harvesting, baling or other special-purpose farm
     machinery, or similar tractor-drawn equipment;

(b)  driving and tending tractor or self-propelled clearing,
     planting, harvesting, timber-carrying or other special-
     purpose forestry machinery;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, timber carrier
  Driver, tractor
  Operator, harvester
  Operator, motorised farm equipment

8123  METAL-HEAT-TREATING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Metal-heat-treating-plant operators operate and monitor
plant altering  the physical properties of metal objects by
heating, cooling and chemical  treatment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring furnaces which heat and cool metal
     objects to relieve internal stresses, restore ductility and
     refine grain structure;

(b)  operating and monitoring furnaces which harden steel
     objects;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which imparts a hard skin and
     tough, ductile core to steel objects by treating them with
     chemicals, heating and quenching or cooling them;

(d)  operating and monitoring furnaces which reheat hardened
     steel objects to relieve stresses and to impart toughness;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Annealer
  Furnace-operator, hardening/metal
  Furnace-operator, heat-treating/metal

8152  CHEMICAL-HEAT-TREATING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Chemical-heat-treating-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which cook, roast and provide other
types of heat treatment in  chemical and related processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which cook
     materials in order to purify, mix or compound them, give
     them special properties or effect chemical changes in them;

(b)  operating and monitoring ovens, kilns or similar devices
     which heat substances in order to dry them, give them
     special properties or effect chemical changes in them ;

(c)  operating and monitoring driers for the processing of
     chemicals and related materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Kiln-operator, chemical and related processes
  Operator, cement production plant
  Operator, roasting equipment/chemical and related
        processes

8163  INCINERATOR, WATER-TREATMENT AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS

 

     Incinerator, water-treatment and related plant operators
operate and  monitor various types of plant, such as
incinerators, water treatment plant,  air and gas compressors,
pumping stations, refrigeration or heating and  ventilation
systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring incinerator machinery and equipment
     which burn garbage or other waste materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which
     purify and clarify water for human consumption or use and
     later disposal into natural water systems;

(c)  operating and monitoring air and gas compressors';

(d)  operating and monitoring pumping stations for transferring
     liquids, gases, semi-liquids and powdered substances from
     one location to another;

(e)  operating and monitoring refrigeration systems for cool or
     cold storage, or industrial processes;

(f)  operating and monitoring heating and ventilation systems ;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, incinerator/refuse disposal
  Operator, pumping-station/water
  Operator, water purification plant

8333  CRANE, HOIST AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Crane, hoist and related plant operators operate and monitor
cranes and  other hoisting equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mobile or stationary cranes with
     mobile or fixed jib or boom ;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment for hoisting, lowering
     or raising men and materials on construction site or in
     mine;

(c)  operating and monitoring ski-lifts and similar equipment;

(d)  operating and monitoring machinery used to haul ferry or
     barge with goods, passengers and vehicles across short
     stretches of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machinery to open and close bridge
     for the passage of road and water traffic;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, crane
  Operator, hoist

8161  POWER-PRODUCTION PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Power-production plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which produce electric or other power
and control its distribution.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring coal-, oil- or natural-gas-fired 
     steam-power-generating plant;

(b)  operating and monitoring nuclear-fuelled steam-power-
     generating plant;

(c)  operating and monitoring hydroelectric-power-generating
     stations;

(d)  operating and monitoring other power generating plant, such
     as solar, tidal, geo-thermal or wind energy;

(e)  controlling power output and distribution of electricity
     from power stations;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, electric power plant
  Operator, hydroelectric power plant
  Operator, nuclear power plant
  Operator, solar power plant

8275  FRUIT-, VEGETABLE- AND NUT-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fruit-, vegetable- and nut-processing machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which extract juice from fruit and
vegetables or oil from  oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit, and
which process fruit, vegetables and  nuts by drying, cooking,
canning or freezing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which extract juice from
     fruit and vegetables by heating or pressing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     oil from oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make margarine and
     similar products from animal and vegetable oils;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare fruit,
     vegetables and nuts for further processing ;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which dry, cook, can,
     freeze or otherwise process fruit, vegetables and nuts

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fruit processing
  Machine-operator, vegetable processing
  Press-operator, edible oils
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Expeller, oil - 7414
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production - 8278
  Preserver, fruit - 7414
  Preserver, vegetable - 7414

8163  INCINERATOR, WATER-TREATMENT AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS

 

     Incinerator, water-treatment and related plant operators
operate and  monitor various types of plant, such as
incinerators, water treatment plant,  air and gas compressors,
pumping stations, refrigeration or heating and  ventilation
systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring incinerator machinery and equipment
     which burn garbage or other waste materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which
     purify and clarify water for human consumption or use and
     later disposal into natural water systems;

(c)  operating and monitoring air and gas compressors';

(d)  operating and monitoring pumping stations for transferring
     liquids, gases, semi-liquids and powdered substances from
     one location to another;

(e)  operating and monitoring refrigeration systems for cool or
     cold storage, or industrial processes;

(f)  operating and monitoring heating and ventilation systems ;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, incinerator/refuse disposal
  Operator, pumping-station/water
  Operator, water purification plant

6122  POULTRY PRODUCERS
 
     Poultry producers plan and carry out the necessary
operations to breed,  raise and tend poultry for sale or delivery
of eggs, meat or feathers on a  regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at markets.

Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of poultry and poultry
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing chicks, growing and purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending poultry, and collecting eggs;

(e)  killing, dressing and packing poultry for shipment;

(f)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(g)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(h)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(i)  performing related tasks;

(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/poultry
  Farmer, poultry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

8152  CHEMICAL-HEAT-TREATING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Chemical-heat-treating-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which cook, roast and provide other
types of heat treatment in  chemical and related processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which cook
     materials in order to purify, mix or compound them, give
     them special properties or effect chemical changes in them;

(b)  operating and monitoring ovens, kilns or similar devices
     which heat substances in order to dry them, give them
     special properties or effect chemical changes in them ;

(c)  operating and monitoring driers for the processing of
     chemicals and related materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Kiln-operator, chemical and related processes
  Operator, cement production plant
  Operator, roasting equipment/chemical and related
        processes

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8122  METAL MELTERS, CASTERS AND ROLLING-MILL OPERATORS
 

     Metal melters, casters and rolling-mill operators operate
and monitor  rolling mills to roll metal, or furnaces to melt or
reheat metal, or machines  to cast metal.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring furnaces to melt ferrous and non-
     ferrous metal for casting;

(b)  operating and monitoring furnaces to reheat stock metal
     forms prior to forging, power-pressing, rolling and further
     processing;

(c)  operating and monitoring rolling mills to shape hot or cold
     steel into shapes for further processing, or into final
     shapes;

(d)  operating and monitoring rolling mills to reduce or form hot
     or cold non-ferrous metal to specified shapes, such as
     plate, sheet or foil;

(e)  operating and monitoring rolls to form seamless tubes and
     pipes from billets which have been pierced longitudinally;

(f)  pouring molten metal into moulds and operating and
     monitoring casting machines

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, melting/metal
  Machine-operator, casting/metal
  Operator, rolling mill/nonferrous metal

8251  PRINTING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Printing-machine operators operate and monitor various types
of machines  which print on paper, tin plate and other materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring cylinder, platen, rotary, offset,
     direct lithographic, rotogravure, and wallpaper-printing
     presses,

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Press-operator, printing/cylinder
  Press-operator, printing/offset
  Press-operator, printing/rotary
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Compositor printing - 7341
  Printer - 7341
  Typesetter - 7341

8159  CHEMICAL-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-processing-plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 815, Chemical-processing
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment
which treat chemical  solutions with bleaching reagents, produce
coke or gas from coal, extrude and  form natural or synthetic
polymers into synthetic fibres, produce fertilisers,  or extract
and process radioactive materials.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which treats chemical
     solutions with bleaching reagents;

(b)  operating and monitoring plant which produces coke or gas
     from coal;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which extrudes or forms
     natural or synthetic polymers into synthetic fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring fertiliser plant equipment;

(e)  operating and monitoring plant which separates and extracts
     radioactive materials from their ores or processes such
     materials;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, coke production plant
  Operator, fertiliser plant
  Operator, synthetic-fibre production plant

8333  CRANE, HOIST AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Crane, hoist and related plant operators operate and monitor
cranes and  other hoisting equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mobile or stationary cranes with
     mobile or fixed jib or boom ;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment for hoisting, lowering
     or raising men and materials on construction site or in
     mine;

(c)  operating and monitoring ski-lifts and similar equipment;

(d)  operating and monitoring machinery used to haul ferry or
     barge with goods, passengers and vehicles across short
     stretches of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machinery to open and close bridge
     for the passage of road and water traffic;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, crane
  Operator, hoist

8262  WEAVING- AND KNITTING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Weaving- and knitting-machine operators operate and monitor
weaving and  knitting machines and related equipment used to
produce materials and fabrics.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to weave or knit
     plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpets, garments,
     hosiery or other fabrics or articles;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, knitting
  Machine-operator, net production
  Machine-operator, weaving
  Machine-operator, weaving/carpets
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Knitter - 7432
  Weaver, carpet - 7432 Weaver, cloth - 7432

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8290  OTHER MACHINE OPERATORS AND ASSEMBLERS
 

     Other machine operators and assemblers operate and monitor
machines which  pack, label and, if needed, add revenue stamps
to products, packages and  containers, or assemble, according to
strictly laid down procedures, products  whose component parts
are made of a wide range of materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which wrap and pack
     various products, including liquid ones, for storage or
     shipment;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which, by gluing or other
     methods, label products, packages and various containers,
     or add revenue stamps;

(c)  assembling, according to strictly laid down procedures,
     products whose component parts are made of a very wide range
     of materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, composite products
  Machine-operator, labelling
  Machine-operator, packing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Packer, hand - 9322

3133  MEDICAL EQUIPMENT OPERATORS 
     Medical equipment operators control technical equipment used
to diagnose  or treat illnesses and disorders.

     Tasks include -

(a)   controlling technical equipment used to diagnose illnesses
      and disorders of the nervous system and organs, or in
      radiography or anaesthetics;

(b)   applying knowledge of technical equipment and some
      principles and practices of medicine in order to identify
      and solve problems arising in the course of their work and
      maintain equipment;

(c)   performing related tasks;

(d)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, electrocardiograph equipment
  Operator, medical X-ray equipment
  Operator, scanning equipment

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Mechanic, electronics - 7243

8290  OTHER MACHINE OPERATORS AND ASSEMBLERS
 

     Other machine operators and assemblers operate and monitor
machines which  pack, label and, if needed, add revenue stamps
to products, packages and  containers, or assemble, according to
strictly laid down procedures, products  whose component parts
are made of a wide range of materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which wrap and pack
     various products, including liquid ones, for storage or
     shipment;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which, by gluing or other
     methods, label products, packages and various containers,
     or add revenue stamps;

(c)  assembling, according to strictly laid down procedures,
     products whose component parts are made of a very wide range
     of materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, composite products
  Machine-operator, labelling
  Machine-operator, packing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Packer, hand - 9322

3131  PHOTOGRAPHERS AND IMAGE AND SOUND RECORDING EQUIPMENT
OPERATORS 
     Photographers and image and sound recording equipment
operators take  photographs, control motion picture and video
cameras and other equipment to  record and edit images and sound.

 
    Tasks include -

(a)   taking photographs for advertising, or other commercial,
      industrial or scientific purposes and to illustrate stories
      and articles in newspapers, magazines and other
      publications;

(b)   taking portrait photographs of persons and groups of
      persons;

(c)   setting and operating motion picture, video, microscopic
      and other specialised cameras, including those for aerial
      photography, to record images;

(d)   controlling equipment to record sound for motion pictures,
      videotapes, gramophone records, audio tapes, digital discs,
      direct broadcasting or other purposes.,

(e)   controlling equipment to edit and mix image and sound
      recordings to ensure satisfactory quality and to create
      special image and sound effects;

(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of image and
      sound recording and editing in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, camera/motion picture
  Operator, recording equipment/sound
  Operator, studio equipment/television
  Photographer

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Mechanic, electronics - 7243
  Photographer, photogravure - 7343
  Photolithographer - 7343
  Repairer, photographic equipment 7311

8151  CRUSHING-, GRINDING- AND CHEMICAL-MIXING-MACHINERY OPERATORS
 

     Crushing-, grinding- and chemical-mixing-machinery operators
operate and  monitor machinery which crushes, grinds, mixes and
blends chemicals and other  materials used in chemical and
related processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mills and crushing machines which
     reduce solid chemicals and related materials to suitable
     size for further processing ;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines in which solids or liquids
     used in chemical and related processes are mixed or blended

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator,  crushing/chemical and related
        processes
  Machine-operator, mixing/chemical and related processes
  Operator, mill/chemical and related processes

8112  MINERAL-ORE- AND STONE-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mineral-ore- and stone-processing-plant operators operate
and monitor  machinery and equipment for processing mineral ore
and stone.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which crushes and breaks
     lumps of minerals and stones to required size;

(b)  operating and monitoring washing, separating, leaching,
     precipitating, filtering, extracting and combining equipment
     to wash mineral ores in order to remove waste material;

(c)  combining mineral ores with solvents to facilitate further
     processing;

(d)  separating metal or mineral concentrates from ore or
     alluvial deposits by thickening, flotation, gravity
     separation, filtration, or magnetic or electrostatic
     separation;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Floatation worker, minerals
  Machine-operator, crushing/mineral ore
  Machine-operator, milling/minerals
  Machine-operator, stone processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cutter, stone - 7113
  Splitter, stone - 7113

3132  BROADCASTING AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT OPERATORS 
     Broadcasting and telecommunications equipment operators
control technical  functioning of equipment for transmitting
radio and television broadcasts of  prerecorded or live images
and sounds, as well as other types of telecommunications signals
on land and sea or in aircraft.
     
     Tasks include -

(a)   controlling transmitting and broadcasting systems and
      satellite systems for radio and television programmes;

(b)   controlling radio communications systems, satellite
      services and multiplex systems on land and sea and in
      aircraft;

(c)   controlling cinema projection equipment;

(d)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of
      broadcasting, telecommunications terminals and transmission
      systems, in order to identify and solve problems arising
in
      the course of their work and maintain equipment;

(e)   keeping logs of operations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, broadcasting equipment/ radio
  Operator, telecommunications equipment
  Operator, transmitting equipment/television

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Mechanic, electronics - 7243
  Technician, engineering/telecommunications - 3114

8331  MOTORISED FARM AND FORESTRY PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Motorised farm and forestry plant operators drive, tend,
operate and  monitor one or more types of motorised, mobile
machinery or equipment used in  farming or forestry operations.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending tractor or self-propelled ploughing,
     planting, harvesting, baling or other special-purpose farm
     machinery, or similar tractor-drawn equipment;

(b)  driving and tending tractor or self-propelled clearing,
     planting, harvesting, timber-carrying or other special-
     purpose forestry machinery;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, timber carrier
  Driver, tractor
  Operator, harvester
  Operator, motorised farm equipment

8221  PHARMACEUTICAL- AND TOILETRY-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Pharmaceutical- and toiletry-products machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which process a variety of
chemicals and other ingredients  used in the production of
pharmaceuticals and toiletries.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines for moulding, filtering,
     fermenting, heating, mixing, grinding, filling and sealing
     materials used in the production of pharmaceuticals,
     toiletries, detergents and related products;

(b)  operating controls to regulate temperature, pressure, flow
     and speed of operation ;

(c)  cleaning and disinfecting equipment;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, detergent production
  Machine-operator, pharmaceutical products
  Machine-operator, toiletries production

8161  POWER-PRODUCTION PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Power-production plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which produce electric or other power
and control its distribution.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring coal-, oil- or natural-gas-fired 
     steam-power-generating plant;

(b)  operating and monitoring nuclear-fuelled steam-power-
     generating plant;

(c)  operating and monitoring hydroelectric-power-generating
     stations;

(d)  operating and monitoring other power generating plant, such
     as solar, tidal, geo-thermal or wind energy;

(e)  controlling power output and distribution of electricity
     from power stations;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, electric power plant
  Operator, hydroelectric power plant
  Operator, nuclear power plant
  Operator, solar power plant

8152  CHEMICAL-HEAT-TREATING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Chemical-heat-treating-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which cook, roast and provide other
types of heat treatment in  chemical and related processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which cook
     materials in order to purify, mix or compound them, give
     them special properties or effect chemical changes in them;

(b)  operating and monitoring ovens, kilns or similar devices
     which heat substances in order to dry them, give them
     special properties or effect chemical changes in them ;

(c)  operating and monitoring driers for the processing of
     chemicals and related materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Kiln-operator, chemical and related processes
  Operator, cement production plant
  Operator, roasting equipment/chemical and related
        processes

8159  CHEMICAL-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-processing-plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 815, Chemical-processing
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment
which treat chemical  solutions with bleaching reagents, produce
coke or gas from coal, extrude and  form natural or synthetic
polymers into synthetic fibres, produce fertilisers,  or extract
and process radioactive materials.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which treats chemical
     solutions with bleaching reagents;

(b)  operating and monitoring plant which produces coke or gas
     from coal;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which extrudes or forms
     natural or synthetic polymers into synthetic fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring fertiliser plant equipment;

(e)  operating and monitoring plant which separates and extracts
     radioactive materials from their ores or processes such
     materials;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, coke production plant
  Operator, fertiliser plant
  Operator, synthetic-fibre production plant

8142  PAPER-PULP PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Paper-pulp plant operators operate and monitor machinery and
equipment  which converts materials such as wood, rags, esparto,
straw, scrap-pulp and  paper into stock for use in papermaking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring chipper and grinding machines which
     reduce logs to pulp;

(b)  operating and monitoring digesters which produce pulp from
     materials such as wood, rags, esparto, straw or scrap-pulp
     and scrap paper;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which bleach wood pulp,
     rags, esparto, straw or scrap-pulp and scrap paper;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which mix, beat and
     hydrate pulp and other ingredients to prepare stuff for
     making paper;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, grinding/wood
  Operator, chipper/paper pulp
  Operator, paper-pulp plant

8143  PAPERMAKING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Papermaking-plant operators operate and monitor machinery
and equipment  which makes paper, paper board and sheet pulp from
pulp stock.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring section of papermaking machinery
     and equipment in which wet pulp is formed into paper or in
     which paper is dried, calendered, wound, slit and rewound;

(b)  operating and monitoring supercalenders used to impart gloss
     and finish to surface of paper;

(c)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment used to
     glaze or impregnate paper with coating mixture;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, papermaking plant
  Operator, supercalender

8155  PETROLEUM- AND NATURAL GAS-REFINING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Petroleum- and natural-gas-refining plant operators operate
and monitor  plant which refines, distils and treats petroleum,
petroleum-based products  and by-products, or natural gas.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which removes sulphur from
     petroleum and petroleum-based products, and byproducts;

(b)  operating and monitoring pumps which circulate petroleum
     products or water and chemical solutions through refinery;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which distil or refine
     petroleum products;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend petrol with
     chemicals and other additives;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which refine or otherwise
     treat natural gas,

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, blender/petroleum and natural gas refining
        (ethyl)
  Operator, paraffin plant
  Operator, still/petroleum and natural gas refining

8332  EARTH-MOVING- AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Earth-moving- and related plant operators operate and
monitor machines to  excavate, grade, level and compact earth or
similar materials and lay surfaces  of asphalt and concrete.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring excavating machines, equipped with
     moveable shovel, grab-bucket or dragline bucket, to excavate
     and move earth, rock, sand, gravel or similar materials, or
     to tear down buildings or other structures;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines for digging trenches for
     sewers, drainage, water, oil, gas or similar pipelines;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines equipped with concave
     steel blade to move, distribute and level earth, sand, snow
     and other materials;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment to remove sand, gravel
     and mud from bottom of body of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines for hammering wooden,
     concrete or steel piles into ground;

(f)  operating and monitoring power roller to compact and smooth
     layers of materials in making roads, pavements and similar
     work;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which spread and smooth
     concrete or bituminous or tar preparations to construct
     roadways, roads or similar work;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, bulldozer
  Operator, excavator
  Operator, pile-driver
  Operator, road-roller

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

3132  BROADCASTING AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT OPERATORS 
     Broadcasting and telecommunications equipment operators
control technical  functioning of equipment for transmitting
radio and television broadcasts of  prerecorded or live images
and sounds, as well as other types of telecommunications signals
on land and sea or in aircraft.
     
     Tasks include -

(a)   controlling transmitting and broadcasting systems and
      satellite systems for radio and television programmes;

(b)   controlling radio communications systems, satellite
      services and multiplex systems on land and sea and in
      aircraft;

(c)   controlling cinema projection equipment;

(d)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of
      broadcasting, telecommunications terminals and transmission
      systems, in order to identify and solve problems arising
in
      the course of their work and maintain equipment;

(e)   keeping logs of operations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, broadcasting equipment/ radio
  Operator, telecommunications equipment
  Operator, transmitting equipment/television

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Mechanic, electronics - 7243
  Technician, engineering/telecommunications - 3114

8139  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers glass and ceramics plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 813, Glass and ceramics
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment used
to mix ingredients for  glass-making or for the preparation of
clay, glaze and abrasives, or which  extrude molten glass in
order to form fibreglass filaments.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which mix ingredients for
     glass-making;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare clay for the
     production of ceramics and bricks;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines for making glaze or
     abrasives

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude molten glass
     to form fibreglass filaments ;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, mixing/clay
  Machine-operator, mixing/glass

8113  WELL DRILLERS AND BORERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Well drillers and borers and related workers erect and
operate drilling  machinery and equipment and perform related
tasks in the sinking and operation  of wells.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing and operating derrick pipe-handling devices and
     slush pumps;

(b)  operating rotary- or percussion-drilling machinery and
     equipment to drill oil or gas wells;

(c)  cleaning and servicing oil or gas wells and replacing
     pumping rods, casings and tubings;

(d)  setting up and operating drilling machinery and equipment
     to drill wells or bores other than for oil or gas;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, boring equipment/wells
  Operator, derrick/oil and gas wells
  Operator, drilling equipment/wells

8155  PETROLEUM- AND NATURAL GAS-REFINING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Petroleum- and natural-gas-refining plant operators operate
and monitor  plant which refines, distils and treats petroleum,
petroleum-based products  and by-products, or natural gas.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which removes sulphur from
     petroleum and petroleum-based products, and byproducts;

(b)  operating and monitoring pumps which circulate petroleum
     products or water and chemical solutions through refinery;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which distil or refine
     petroleum products;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend petrol with
     chemicals and other additives;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which refine or otherwise
     treat natural gas,

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, blender/petroleum and natural gas refining
        (ethyl)
  Operator, paraffin plant
  Operator, still/petroleum and natural gas refining

8163  INCINERATOR, WATER-TREATMENT AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS

 

     Incinerator, water-treatment and related plant operators
operate and  monitor various types of plant, such as
incinerators, water treatment plant,  air and gas compressors,
pumping stations, refrigeration or heating and  ventilation
systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring incinerator machinery and equipment
     which burn garbage or other waste materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which
     purify and clarify water for human consumption or use and
     later disposal into natural water systems;

(c)  operating and monitoring air and gas compressors';

(d)  operating and monitoring pumping stations for transferring
     liquids, gases, semi-liquids and powdered substances from
     one location to another;

(e)  operating and monitoring refrigeration systems for cool or
     cold storage, or industrial processes;

(f)  operating and monitoring heating and ventilation systems ;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, incinerator/refuse disposal
  Operator, pumping-station/water
  Operator, water purification plant

3132  BROADCASTING AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT OPERATORS 
     Broadcasting and telecommunications equipment operators
control technical  functioning of equipment for transmitting
radio and television broadcasts of  prerecorded or live images
and sounds, as well as other types of telecommunications signals
on land and sea or in aircraft.
     
     Tasks include -

(a)   controlling transmitting and broadcasting systems and
      satellite systems for radio and television programmes;

(b)   controlling radio communications systems, satellite
      services and multiplex systems on land and sea and in
      aircraft;

(c)   controlling cinema projection equipment;

(d)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of
      broadcasting, telecommunications terminals and transmission
      systems, in order to identify and solve problems arising
in
      the course of their work and maintain equipment;

(e)   keeping logs of operations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, broadcasting equipment/ radio
  Operator, telecommunications equipment
  Operator, transmitting equipment/television

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Mechanic, electronics - 7243
  Technician, engineering/telecommunications - 3114

8154  CHEMICAL-STILL AND REACTOR OPERATORS (EXCEPT PETROLEUM AND NATURAL GAS)
 

     Still and reactor operators (except petroleum and natural
gas)         operate  and monitor equipment which distils and
             refines chemicals, except petroleum.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment in which crude liquid
     chemicals are treated to refine or separate them into their
     chemical constituents;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment which performs a sequence
     of operations in a chemical reaction process;

(c)  operating and monitoring evaporation tanks, vacuum pans or
     similar devices to concentrate solutions and suspensions;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, converter/chemical processes (except petroleum
        and natural gas)
  Operator, reactor/chemical processes (except petroleum
        and natural gas)
  Operator, still/turpentine

8161  POWER-PRODUCTION PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Power-production plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which produce electric or other power
and control its distribution.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring coal-, oil- or natural-gas-fired 
     steam-power-generating plant;

(b)  operating and monitoring nuclear-fuelled steam-power-
     generating plant;

(c)  operating and monitoring hydroelectric-power-generating
     stations;

(d)  operating and monitoring other power generating plant, such
     as solar, tidal, geo-thermal or wind energy;

(e)  controlling power output and distribution of electricity
     from power stations;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, electric power plant
  Operator, hydroelectric power plant
  Operator, nuclear power plant
  Operator, solar power plant

3131  PHOTOGRAPHERS AND IMAGE AND SOUND RECORDING EQUIPMENT
OPERATORS 
     Photographers and image and sound recording equipment
operators take  photographs, control motion picture and video
cameras and other equipment to  record and edit images and sound.

 
    Tasks include -

(a)   taking photographs for advertising, or other commercial,
      industrial or scientific purposes and to illustrate stories
      and articles in newspapers, magazines and other
      publications;

(b)   taking portrait photographs of persons and groups of
      persons;

(c)   setting and operating motion picture, video, microscopic
      and other specialised cameras, including those for aerial
      photography, to record images;

(d)   controlling equipment to record sound for motion pictures,
      videotapes, gramophone records, audio tapes, digital discs,
      direct broadcasting or other purposes.,

(e)   controlling equipment to edit and mix image and sound
      recordings to ensure satisfactory quality and to create
      special image and sound effects;

(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of image and
      sound recording and editing in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, camera/motion picture
  Operator, recording equipment/sound
  Operator, studio equipment/television
  Photographer

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Mechanic, electronics - 7243
  Photographer, photogravure - 7343
  Photolithographer - 7343
  Repairer, photographic equipment 7311

8161  POWER-PRODUCTION PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Power-production plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which produce electric or other power
and control its distribution.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring coal-, oil- or natural-gas-fired 
     steam-power-generating plant;

(b)  operating and monitoring nuclear-fuelled steam-power-
     generating plant;

(c)  operating and monitoring hydroelectric-power-generating
     stations;

(d)  operating and monitoring other power generating plant, such
     as solar, tidal, geo-thermal or wind energy;

(e)  controlling power output and distribution of electricity
     from power stations;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, electric power plant
  Operator, hydroelectric power plant
  Operator, nuclear power plant
  Operator, solar power plant

8142  PAPER-PULP PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Paper-pulp plant operators operate and monitor machinery and
equipment  which converts materials such as wood, rags, esparto,
straw, scrap-pulp and  paper into stock for use in papermaking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring chipper and grinding machines which
     reduce logs to pulp;

(b)  operating and monitoring digesters which produce pulp from
     materials such as wood, rags, esparto, straw or scrap-pulp
     and scrap paper;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which bleach wood pulp,
     rags, esparto, straw or scrap-pulp and scrap paper;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which mix, beat and
     hydrate pulp and other ingredients to prepare stuff for
     making paper;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, grinding/wood
  Operator, chipper/paper pulp
  Operator, paper-pulp plant

8155  PETROLEUM- AND NATURAL GAS-REFINING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Petroleum- and natural-gas-refining plant operators operate
and monitor  plant which refines, distils and treats petroleum,
petroleum-based products  and by-products, or natural gas.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which removes sulphur from
     petroleum and petroleum-based products, and byproducts;

(b)  operating and monitoring pumps which circulate petroleum
     products or water and chemical solutions through refinery;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which distil or refine
     petroleum products;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend petrol with
     chemicals and other additives;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which refine or otherwise
     treat natural gas,

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, blender/petroleum and natural gas refining
        (ethyl)
  Operator, paraffin plant
  Operator, still/petroleum and natural gas refining

8163  INCINERATOR, WATER-TREATMENT AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS

 

     Incinerator, water-treatment and related plant operators
operate and  monitor various types of plant, such as
incinerators, water treatment plant,  air and gas compressors,
pumping stations, refrigeration or heating and  ventilation
systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring incinerator machinery and equipment
     which burn garbage or other waste materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which
     purify and clarify water for human consumption or use and
     later disposal into natural water systems;

(c)  operating and monitoring air and gas compressors';

(d)  operating and monitoring pumping stations for transferring
     liquids, gases, semi-liquids and powdered substances from
     one location to another;

(e)  operating and monitoring refrigeration systems for cool or
     cold storage, or industrial processes;

(f)  operating and monitoring heating and ventilation systems ;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, incinerator/refuse disposal
  Operator, pumping-station/water
  Operator, water purification plant

8152  CHEMICAL-HEAT-TREATING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Chemical-heat-treating-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which cook, roast and provide other
types of heat treatment in  chemical and related processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which cook
     materials in order to purify, mix or compound them, give
     them special properties or effect chemical changes in them;

(b)  operating and monitoring ovens, kilns or similar devices
     which heat substances in order to dry them, give them
     special properties or effect chemical changes in them ;

(c)  operating and monitoring driers for the processing of
     chemicals and related materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Kiln-operator, chemical and related processes
  Operator, cement production plant
  Operator, roasting equipment/chemical and related
        processes

8159  CHEMICAL-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-processing-plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 815, Chemical-processing
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment
which treat chemical  solutions with bleaching reagents, produce
coke or gas from coal, extrude and  form natural or synthetic
polymers into synthetic fibres, produce fertilisers,  or extract
and process radioactive materials.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which treats chemical
     solutions with bleaching reagents;

(b)  operating and monitoring plant which produces coke or gas
     from coal;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which extrudes or forms
     natural or synthetic polymers into synthetic fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring fertiliser plant equipment;

(e)  operating and monitoring plant which separates and extracts
     radioactive materials from their ores or processes such
     materials;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, coke production plant
  Operator, fertiliser plant
  Operator, synthetic-fibre production plant

8332  EARTH-MOVING- AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Earth-moving- and related plant operators operate and
monitor machines to  excavate, grade, level and compact earth or
similar materials and lay surfaces  of asphalt and concrete.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring excavating machines, equipped with
     moveable shovel, grab-bucket or dragline bucket, to excavate
     and move earth, rock, sand, gravel or similar materials, or
     to tear down buildings or other structures;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines for digging trenches for
     sewers, drainage, water, oil, gas or similar pipelines;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines equipped with concave
     steel blade to move, distribute and level earth, sand, snow
     and other materials;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment to remove sand, gravel
     and mud from bottom of body of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines for hammering wooden,
     concrete or steel piles into ground;

(f)  operating and monitoring power roller to compact and smooth
     layers of materials in making roads, pavements and similar
     work;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which spread and smooth
     concrete or bituminous or tar preparations to construct
     roadways, roads or similar work;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, bulldozer
  Operator, excavator
  Operator, pile-driver
  Operator, road-roller

8152  CHEMICAL-HEAT-TREATING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Chemical-heat-treating-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which cook, roast and provide other
types of heat treatment in  chemical and related processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which cook
     materials in order to purify, mix or compound them, give
     them special properties or effect chemical changes in them;

(b)  operating and monitoring ovens, kilns or similar devices
     which heat substances in order to dry them, give them
     special properties or effect chemical changes in them ;

(c)  operating and monitoring driers for the processing of
     chemicals and related materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Kiln-operator, chemical and related processes
  Operator, cement production plant
  Operator, roasting equipment/chemical and related
        processes

8277  TEA-, COFFEE- AND COCOA-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Tea-, coffee- and cocoa-processing machine operators operate
and monitor  machines to blend and prepare tea leaves, coffee or
cocoa beans and chicory  roots.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to dry tea leaves,
     roll withered leaves or dry rolled leaves, and blend various
     grades of tea;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines used to cut coffee or
     cocoa berries and remove and wash off pulp, peel off husk
     from beans, and cure and blend beans;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which roast blended coffee
     or cocoa beans or chicory roots;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which crush tea or grind
     coffee, cocoa or chicory; 

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cocoa-bean processing
  Machine-operator, coffee-bean processing
  Machine-operator, tea-leaf processing

8172  INDUSTRIAL-ROBOT OPERATORS
 

     Industrial-robot operators load and unload industrial robots
and perform  related tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring industrial robots ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, robot
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Controller, robot - 31 23

8273  GRAIN- AND SPICE-MILLING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Grain- and spice-milling-machine operators operate and
monitor machinery  used to crush, grind, blend and otherwise
process grain, spices and related  foodstuffs for human or animal
consumption.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery used for the production
     of flour, meal and animal feed and for processing rice ;

(b)  operating and monitoring milling machines used for grinding
     grain and spices;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, milling/grain
  Machine-operator, milling/rice
  Machine-operator, milling/spices

8122  METAL MELTERS, CASTERS AND ROLLING-MILL OPERATORS
 

     Metal melters, casters and rolling-mill operators operate
and monitor  rolling mills to roll metal, or furnaces to melt or
reheat metal, or machines  to cast metal.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring furnaces to melt ferrous and non-
     ferrous metal for casting;

(b)  operating and monitoring furnaces to reheat stock metal
     forms prior to forging, power-pressing, rolling and further
     processing;

(c)  operating and monitoring rolling mills to shape hot or cold
     steel into shapes for further processing, or into final
     shapes;

(d)  operating and monitoring rolling mills to reduce or form hot
     or cold non-ferrous metal to specified shapes, such as
     plate, sheet or foil;

(e)  operating and monitoring rolls to form seamless tubes and
     pipes from billets which have been pierced longitudinally;

(f)  pouring molten metal into moulds and operating and
     monitoring casting machines

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, melting/metal
  Machine-operator, casting/metal
  Operator, rolling mill/nonferrous metal

8273  GRAIN- AND SPICE-MILLING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Grain- and spice-milling-machine operators operate and
monitor machinery  used to crush, grind, blend and otherwise
process grain, spices and related  foodstuffs for human or animal
consumption.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery used for the production
     of flour, meal and animal feed and for processing rice ;

(b)  operating and monitoring milling machines used for grinding
     grain and spices;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, milling/grain
  Machine-operator, milling/rice
  Machine-operator, milling/spices

8122  METAL MELTERS, CASTERS AND ROLLING-MILL OPERATORS
 

     Metal melters, casters and rolling-mill operators operate
and monitor  rolling mills to roll metal, or furnaces to melt or
reheat metal, or machines  to cast metal.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring furnaces to melt ferrous and non-
     ferrous metal for casting;

(b)  operating and monitoring furnaces to reheat stock metal
     forms prior to forging, power-pressing, rolling and further
     processing;

(c)  operating and monitoring rolling mills to shape hot or cold
     steel into shapes for further processing, or into final
     shapes;

(d)  operating and monitoring rolling mills to reduce or form hot
     or cold non-ferrous metal to specified shapes, such as
     plate, sheet or foil;

(e)  operating and monitoring rolls to form seamless tubes and
     pipes from billets which have been pierced longitudinally;

(f)  pouring molten metal into moulds and operating and
     monitoring casting machines

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, melting/metal
  Machine-operator, casting/metal
  Operator, rolling mill/nonferrous metal

8333  CRANE, HOIST AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Crane, hoist and related plant operators operate and monitor
cranes and  other hoisting equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mobile or stationary cranes with
     mobile or fixed jib or boom ;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment for hoisting, lowering
     or raising men and materials on construction site or in
     mine;

(c)  operating and monitoring ski-lifts and similar equipment;

(d)  operating and monitoring machinery used to haul ferry or
     barge with goods, passengers and vehicles across short
     stretches of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machinery to open and close bridge
     for the passage of road and water traffic;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, crane
  Operator, hoist

8159  CHEMICAL-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-processing-plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 815, Chemical-processing
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment
which treat chemical  solutions with bleaching reagents, produce
coke or gas from coal, extrude and  form natural or synthetic
polymers into synthetic fibres, produce fertilisers,  or extract
and process radioactive materials.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which treats chemical
     solutions with bleaching reagents;

(b)  operating and monitoring plant which produces coke or gas
     from coal;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which extrudes or forms
     natural or synthetic polymers into synthetic fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring fertiliser plant equipment;

(e)  operating and monitoring plant which separates and extracts
     radioactive materials from their ores or processes such
     materials;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, coke production plant
  Operator, fertiliser plant
  Operator, synthetic-fibre production plant

8131  GLASS AND CERAMICS KILN AND RELATED MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Glass and ceramics kiln and related machine operators
operate and monitor  kilns, furnaces and other machinery and
equipment used in the manufacture of  glass, ceramics, porcelain
or bricks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring glass-making furnaces;

(b)  operating and monitoring glass-annealing furnaces to prevent
     or remove internal stresses ;

(c)  operating and monitoring tempering furnaces to toughen glass

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which shape glass articles
     by blowing or pressure-moulding;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which draw or roll molten
     glass to a continuous sheet of flat glass;

(f)  operating and monitoring floating-glass production plant;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which polish and level
     plate-glass surfaces;

(h)  operating and monitoring machines which make glass rods and
     tubes from molten glass by drawing or drawing and blowing;

(i)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake pottery and
     porcelain ware or which fix glazing and decoration by
     rebaking;

(j)  operating and monitoring kilns which bake bricks and tiles;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furnace-operator, glass production
  Kiln-operator, brick and tile
  Kiln-operator, pottery and porcelain
  Machine-operator, blowing/glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Blower, glass - 7322
  Cutter, glass - 7322
  Moulder, brick and tile - 7321

8223  METAL FINISHING-, PLATING AND COATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Metal finishing-, plating- and coating-machine operators
operate and  monitor equipment which finishes, plates and coats
metal articles or parts, in  order to give them improved
resistance to corrosion and abrasion, for  decorative purposes,
or to impart electrical or magnetic properties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which cleans metal
     articles in preparation for electroplating, galvanising,
     enamelling or similar processes;

(b)  operating and monitoring electroplating equipment;

(c)  operating and monitoring hot-dip equipment used to coat iron
     and steel products

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which automatically coat
     wire with non ferrous metal

(e)  operating and monitoring equipment used to spray molten
     metal or other substances on metal products to provide a
     protective or decorative coating or to build up worn or
     damaged surfaces;

(f)  operating and monitoring equipment used to impart a rust-
     resistant finish to metal articles by treating them with
     chemicals and heating them;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, coating/metal
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal
  Machine-operator, plating/metal

8141  WOOD-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Wood-processing-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment for sawing wood, cutting veneer and
making plywood, and otherwise  prepare wood for further use.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring log in-feed and conveyor systems;

(b)  operating and monitoring head saws, resaws and multiblade
     saws to saw logs, cants, flitches, slabs or wings and remove
     rough edges from sawn timber;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut veneer;

(d)  operating and monitoring plywood core-laying machines and
     hot-plate plywood presses;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, band-saw
  Operator, sawmill
  Operator, wood-processing plant
  Press-operator, plywood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Wood seasoner - 7421
  Wood treater - 7421

3133  MEDICAL EQUIPMENT OPERATORS 
     Medical equipment operators control technical equipment used
to diagnose  or treat illnesses and disorders.

     Tasks include -

(a)   controlling technical equipment used to diagnose illnesses
      and disorders of the nervous system and organs, or in
      radiography or anaesthetics;

(b)   applying knowledge of technical equipment and some
      principles and practices of medicine in order to identify
      and solve problems arising in the course of their work and
      maintain equipment;

(c)   performing related tasks;

(d)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, electrocardiograph equipment
  Operator, medical X-ray equipment
  Operator, scanning equipment

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Mechanic, electronics - 7243

8153  CHEMICAL-FILTERING- AND SEPARATING-EQUIPMENT OPERATORS
 

     Chemical-filtering- and separating-equipment operators
operate and  monitor machines and equipment which filter and
separate chemicals and related  materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment in which solutions are
     forced, under pressure, through a filtering unit;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment in which solutions are
     vacuum-drawn through filtering media fitted to a rotating
     drum;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which separate substances
     by centrifugal force;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment which removes sediment
     and water from crude oil;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, separator/chemical and related processes
  Operator, treating equipment/crude oil
  Filter-press operator, chemical and related materials

8142  PAPER-PULP PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Paper-pulp plant operators operate and monitor machinery and
equipment  which converts materials such as wood, rags, esparto,
straw, scrap-pulp and  paper into stock for use in papermaking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring chipper and grinding machines which
     reduce logs to pulp;

(b)  operating and monitoring digesters which produce pulp from
     materials such as wood, rags, esparto, straw or scrap-pulp
     and scrap paper;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which bleach wood pulp,
     rags, esparto, straw or scrap-pulp and scrap paper;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which mix, beat and
     hydrate pulp and other ingredients to prepare stuff for
     making paper;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, grinding/wood
  Operator, chipper/paper pulp
  Operator, paper-pulp plant

8153  CHEMICAL-FILTERING- AND SEPARATING-EQUIPMENT OPERATORS
 

     Chemical-filtering- and separating-equipment operators
operate and  monitor machines and equipment which filter and
separate chemicals and related  materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment in which solutions are
     forced, under pressure, through a filtering unit;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment in which solutions are
     vacuum-drawn through filtering media fitted to a rotating
     drum;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which separate substances
     by centrifugal force;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment which removes sediment
     and water from crude oil;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, separator/chemical and related processes
  Operator, treating equipment/crude oil
  Filter-press operator, chemical and related materials

8163  INCINERATOR, WATER-TREATMENT AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS

 

     Incinerator, water-treatment and related plant operators
operate and  monitor various types of plant, such as
incinerators, water treatment plant,  air and gas compressors,
pumping stations, refrigeration or heating and  ventilation
systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring incinerator machinery and equipment
     which burn garbage or other waste materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which
     purify and clarify water for human consumption or use and
     later disposal into natural water systems;

(c)  operating and monitoring air and gas compressors';

(d)  operating and monitoring pumping stations for transferring
     liquids, gases, semi-liquids and powdered substances from
     one location to another;

(e)  operating and monitoring refrigeration systems for cool or
     cold storage, or industrial processes;

(f)  operating and monitoring heating and ventilation systems ;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, incinerator/refuse disposal
  Operator, pumping-station/water
  Operator, water purification plant

8332  EARTH-MOVING- AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Earth-moving- and related plant operators operate and
monitor machines to  excavate, grade, level and compact earth or
similar materials and lay surfaces  of asphalt and concrete.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring excavating machines, equipped with
     moveable shovel, grab-bucket or dragline bucket, to excavate
     and move earth, rock, sand, gravel or similar materials, or
     to tear down buildings or other structures;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines for digging trenches for
     sewers, drainage, water, oil, gas or similar pipelines;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines equipped with concave
     steel blade to move, distribute and level earth, sand, snow
     and other materials;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment to remove sand, gravel
     and mud from bottom of body of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines for hammering wooden,
     concrete or steel piles into ground;

(f)  operating and monitoring power roller to compact and smooth
     layers of materials in making roads, pavements and similar
     work;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which spread and smooth
     concrete or bituminous or tar preparations to construct
     roadways, roads or similar work;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, bulldozer
  Operator, excavator
  Operator, pile-driver
  Operator, road-roller

8324  HEAVY-TRUCK AND LORRY DRIVERS
 

     Heavy-truck and lorry drivers drive and tend heavy motor
vehicles to  transport goods, liquids and heavy materials over
short or long distances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending a heavy motor vehicle, such as a lorry
     with or without trailer or a dump-truck, to transport goods,
     liquids or heavy materials over short or long distances;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, truck/heavy
  Operator, shuttle-car/mine

8153  CHEMICAL-FILTERING- AND SEPARATING-EQUIPMENT OPERATORS
 

     Chemical-filtering- and separating-equipment operators
operate and  monitor machines and equipment which filter and
separate chemicals and related  materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment in which solutions are
     forced, under pressure, through a filtering unit;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment in which solutions are
     vacuum-drawn through filtering media fitted to a rotating
     drum;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which separate substances
     by centrifugal force;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment which removes sediment
     and water from crude oil;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, separator/chemical and related processes
  Operator, treating equipment/crude oil
  Filter-press operator, chemical and related materials

8333  CRANE, HOIST AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Crane, hoist and related plant operators operate and monitor
cranes and  other hoisting equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mobile or stationary cranes with
     mobile or fixed jib or boom ;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment for hoisting, lowering
     or raising men and materials on construction site or in
     mine;

(c)  operating and monitoring ski-lifts and similar equipment;

(d)  operating and monitoring machinery used to haul ferry or
     barge with goods, passengers and vehicles across short
     stretches of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machinery to open and close bridge
     for the passage of road and water traffic;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, crane
  Operator, hoist

8161  POWER-PRODUCTION PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Power-production plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which produce electric or other power
and control its distribution.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring coal-, oil- or natural-gas-fired 
     steam-power-generating plant;

(b)  operating and monitoring nuclear-fuelled steam-power-
     generating plant;

(c)  operating and monitoring hydroelectric-power-generating
     stations;

(d)  operating and monitoring other power generating plant, such
     as solar, tidal, geo-thermal or wind energy;

(e)  controlling power output and distribution of electricity
     from power stations;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, electric power plant
  Operator, hydroelectric power plant
  Operator, nuclear power plant
  Operator, solar power plant

8152  CHEMICAL-HEAT-TREATING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Chemical-heat-treating-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which cook, roast and provide other
types of heat treatment in  chemical and related processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which cook
     materials in order to purify, mix or compound them, give
     them special properties or effect chemical changes in them;

(b)  operating and monitoring ovens, kilns or similar devices
     which heat substances in order to dry them, give them
     special properties or effect chemical changes in them ;

(c)  operating and monitoring driers for the processing of
     chemicals and related materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Kiln-operator, chemical and related processes
  Operator, cement production plant
  Operator, roasting equipment/chemical and related
        processes

8332  EARTH-MOVING- AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Earth-moving- and related plant operators operate and
monitor machines to  excavate, grade, level and compact earth or
similar materials and lay surfaces  of asphalt and concrete.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring excavating machines, equipped with
     moveable shovel, grab-bucket or dragline bucket, to excavate
     and move earth, rock, sand, gravel or similar materials, or
     to tear down buildings or other structures;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines for digging trenches for
     sewers, drainage, water, oil, gas or similar pipelines;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines equipped with concave
     steel blade to move, distribute and level earth, sand, snow
     and other materials;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment to remove sand, gravel
     and mud from bottom of body of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines for hammering wooden,
     concrete or steel piles into ground;

(f)  operating and monitoring power roller to compact and smooth
     layers of materials in making roads, pavements and similar
     work;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which spread and smooth
     concrete or bituminous or tar preparations to construct
     roadways, roads or similar work;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, bulldozer
  Operator, excavator
  Operator, pile-driver
  Operator, road-roller

8162  STEAM-ENGINE AND BOILER OPERATORS
 

     Steam-engine and boiler operators operate and monitor steam-
engines and  boilers on land and at sea.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring coal- or oil fired steam-engines
     or boilers on land and at sea;

(b)  performing' related tasks

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, boiler/ship
  Operator, steam engine

8161  POWER-PRODUCTION PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Power-production plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which produce electric or other power
and control its distribution.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring coal-, oil- or natural-gas-fired 
     steam-power-generating plant;

(b)  operating and monitoring nuclear-fuelled steam-power-
     generating plant;

(c)  operating and monitoring hydroelectric-power-generating
     stations;

(d)  operating and monitoring other power generating plant, such
     as solar, tidal, geo-thermal or wind energy;

(e)  controlling power output and distribution of electricity
     from power stations;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, electric power plant
  Operator, hydroelectric power plant
  Operator, nuclear power plant
  Operator, solar power plant

8155  PETROLEUM- AND NATURAL GAS-REFINING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Petroleum- and natural-gas-refining plant operators operate
and monitor  plant which refines, distils and treats petroleum,
petroleum-based products  and by-products, or natural gas.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which removes sulphur from
     petroleum and petroleum-based products, and byproducts;

(b)  operating and monitoring pumps which circulate petroleum
     products or water and chemical solutions through refinery;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which distil or refine
     petroleum products;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend petrol with
     chemicals and other additives;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which refine or otherwise
     treat natural gas,

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, blender/petroleum and natural gas refining
        (ethyl)
  Operator, paraffin plant
  Operator, still/petroleum and natural gas refining

8154  CHEMICAL-STILL AND REACTOR OPERATORS (EXCEPT PETROLEUM AND NATURAL GAS)
 

     Still and reactor operators (except petroleum and natural
gas)         operate  and monitor equipment which distils and
             refines chemicals, except petroleum.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment in which crude liquid
     chemicals are treated to refine or separate them into their
     chemical constituents;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment which performs a sequence
     of operations in a chemical reaction process;

(c)  operating and monitoring evaporation tanks, vacuum pans or
     similar devices to concentrate solutions and suspensions;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, converter/chemical processes (except petroleum
        and natural gas)
  Operator, reactor/chemical processes (except petroleum
        and natural gas)
  Operator, still/turpentine

8221  PHARMACEUTICAL- AND TOILETRY-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Pharmaceutical- and toiletry-products machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which process a variety of
chemicals and other ingredients  used in the production of
pharmaceuticals and toiletries.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines for moulding, filtering,
     fermenting, heating, mixing, grinding, filling and sealing
     materials used in the production of pharmaceuticals,
     toiletries, detergents and related products;

(b)  operating controls to regulate temperature, pressure, flow
     and speed of operation ;

(c)  cleaning and disinfecting equipment;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, detergent production
  Machine-operator, pharmaceutical products
  Machine-operator, toiletries production

8155  PETROLEUM- AND NATURAL GAS-REFINING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Petroleum- and natural-gas-refining plant operators operate
and monitor  plant which refines, distils and treats petroleum,
petroleum-based products  and by-products, or natural gas.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which removes sulphur from
     petroleum and petroleum-based products, and byproducts;

(b)  operating and monitoring pumps which circulate petroleum
     products or water and chemical solutions through refinery;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which distil or refine
     petroleum products;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend petrol with
     chemicals and other additives;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which refine or otherwise
     treat natural gas,

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, blender/petroleum and natural gas refining
        (ethyl)
  Operator, paraffin plant
  Operator, still/petroleum and natural gas refining

8278  BREWERS, WINE AND OTHER BEVERAGE  MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Brewers, wine and other beverage machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which mix, press, or malt and ferment
grains and fruit to make malt  liquors, wine and other alcoholic
or non-alcoholic beverages, except fruit and  vegetable juices.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which process barley and
     other grains used in making distilled and malt liquors, and
     controlling the fermentation process,

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which process grapes and
     other fruit used in making wines, and controlling the
     fermentation process;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which increase or reduce the
     alcohol content of alcoholic beverages;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend wines and
     liquors to obtain desired tastes and flavours;
(e)  operating and monitoring machines which make non-alcoholic
     beverages, except fruit and vegetable juices;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Brewer
  Machine-operator, malting/spirits
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, fruit juice production - 8275
  Taster, wine - 7415

8154  CHEMICAL-STILL AND REACTOR OPERATORS (EXCEPT PETROLEUM AND NATURAL GAS)
 

     Still and reactor operators (except petroleum and natural
gas)         operate  and monitor equipment which distils and
             refines chemicals, except petroleum.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment in which crude liquid
     chemicals are treated to refine or separate them into their
     chemical constituents;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment which performs a sequence
     of operations in a chemical reaction process;

(c)  operating and monitoring evaporation tanks, vacuum pans or
     similar devices to concentrate solutions and suspensions;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, converter/chemical processes (except petroleum
        and natural gas)
  Operator, reactor/chemical processes (except petroleum
        and natural gas)
  Operator, still/turpentine

8112  MINERAL-ORE- AND STONE-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mineral-ore- and stone-processing-plant operators operate
and monitor  machinery and equipment for processing mineral ore
and stone.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which crushes and breaks
     lumps of minerals and stones to required size;

(b)  operating and monitoring washing, separating, leaching,
     precipitating, filtering, extracting and combining equipment
     to wash mineral ores in order to remove waste material;

(c)  combining mineral ores with solvents to facilitate further
     processing;

(d)  separating metal or mineral concentrates from ore or
     alluvial deposits by thickening, flotation, gravity
     separation, filtration, or magnetic or electrostatic
     separation;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Floatation worker, minerals
  Machine-operator, crushing/mineral ore
  Machine-operator, milling/minerals
  Machine-operator, stone processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cutter, stone - 7113
  Splitter, stone - 7113

3131  PHOTOGRAPHERS AND IMAGE AND SOUND RECORDING EQUIPMENT
OPERATORS 
     Photographers and image and sound recording equipment
operators take  photographs, control motion picture and video
cameras and other equipment to  record and edit images and sound.

 
    Tasks include -

(a)   taking photographs for advertising, or other commercial,
      industrial or scientific purposes and to illustrate stories
      and articles in newspapers, magazines and other
      publications;

(b)   taking portrait photographs of persons and groups of
      persons;

(c)   setting and operating motion picture, video, microscopic
      and other specialised cameras, including those for aerial
      photography, to record images;

(d)   controlling equipment to record sound for motion pictures,
      videotapes, gramophone records, audio tapes, digital discs,
      direct broadcasting or other purposes.,

(e)   controlling equipment to edit and mix image and sound
      recordings to ensure satisfactory quality and to create
      special image and sound effects;

(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of image and
      sound recording and editing in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, camera/motion picture
  Operator, recording equipment/sound
  Operator, studio equipment/television
  Photographer

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Mechanic, electronics - 7243
  Photographer, photogravure - 7343
  Photolithographer - 7343
  Repairer, photographic equipment 7311

8143  PAPERMAKING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Papermaking-plant operators operate and monitor machinery
and equipment  which makes paper, paper board and sheet pulp from
pulp stock.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring section of papermaking machinery
     and equipment in which wet pulp is formed into paper or in
     which paper is dried, calendered, wound, slit and rewound;

(b)  operating and monitoring supercalenders used to impart gloss
     and finish to surface of paper;

(c)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment used to
     glaze or impregnate paper with coating mixture;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, papermaking plant
  Operator, supercalender

8161  POWER-PRODUCTION PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Power-production plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which produce electric or other power
and control its distribution.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring coal-, oil- or natural-gas-fired 
     steam-power-generating plant;

(b)  operating and monitoring nuclear-fuelled steam-power-
     generating plant;

(c)  operating and monitoring hydroelectric-power-generating
     stations;

(d)  operating and monitoring other power generating plant, such
     as solar, tidal, geo-thermal or wind energy;

(e)  controlling power output and distribution of electricity
     from power stations;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, electric power plant
  Operator, hydroelectric power plant
  Operator, nuclear power plant
  Operator, solar power plant

8159  CHEMICAL-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-processing-plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 815, Chemical-processing
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment
which treat chemical  solutions with bleaching reagents, produce
coke or gas from coal, extrude and  form natural or synthetic
polymers into synthetic fibres, produce fertilisers,  or extract
and process radioactive materials.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which treats chemical
     solutions with bleaching reagents;

(b)  operating and monitoring plant which produces coke or gas
     from coal;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which extrudes or forms
     natural or synthetic polymers into synthetic fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring fertiliser plant equipment;

(e)  operating and monitoring plant which separates and extracts
     radioactive materials from their ores or processes such
     materials;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, coke production plant
  Operator, fertiliser plant
  Operator, synthetic-fibre production plant

8332  EARTH-MOVING- AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Earth-moving- and related plant operators operate and
monitor machines to  excavate, grade, level and compact earth or
similar materials and lay surfaces  of asphalt and concrete.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring excavating machines, equipped with
     moveable shovel, grab-bucket or dragline bucket, to excavate
     and move earth, rock, sand, gravel or similar materials, or
     to tear down buildings or other structures;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines for digging trenches for
     sewers, drainage, water, oil, gas or similar pipelines;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines equipped with concave
     steel blade to move, distribute and level earth, sand, snow
     and other materials;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment to remove sand, gravel
     and mud from bottom of body of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines for hammering wooden,
     concrete or steel piles into ground;

(f)  operating and monitoring power roller to compact and smooth
     layers of materials in making roads, pavements and similar
     work;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which spread and smooth
     concrete or bituminous or tar preparations to construct
     roadways, roads or similar work;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, bulldozer
  Operator, excavator
  Operator, pile-driver
  Operator, road-roller

3132  BROADCASTING AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT OPERATORS 
     Broadcasting and telecommunications equipment operators
control technical  functioning of equipment for transmitting
radio and television broadcasts of  prerecorded or live images
and sounds, as well as other types of telecommunications signals
on land and sea or in aircraft.
     
     Tasks include -

(a)   controlling transmitting and broadcasting systems and
      satellite systems for radio and television programmes;

(b)   controlling radio communications systems, satellite
      services and multiplex systems on land and sea and in
      aircraft;

(c)   controlling cinema projection equipment;

(d)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of
      broadcasting, telecommunications terminals and transmission
      systems, in order to identify and solve problems arising
in
      the course of their work and maintain equipment;

(e)   keeping logs of operations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, broadcasting equipment/ radio
  Operator, telecommunications equipment
  Operator, transmitting equipment/television

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Mechanic, electronics - 7243
  Technician, engineering/telecommunications - 3114

8331  MOTORISED FARM AND FORESTRY PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Motorised farm and forestry plant operators drive, tend,
operate and  monitor one or more types of motorised, mobile
machinery or equipment used in  farming or forestry operations.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending tractor or self-propelled ploughing,
     planting, harvesting, baling or other special-purpose farm
     machinery, or similar tractor-drawn equipment;

(b)  driving and tending tractor or self-propelled clearing,
     planting, harvesting, timber-carrying or other special-
     purpose forestry machinery;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, timber carrier
  Driver, tractor
  Operator, harvester
  Operator, motorised farm equipment

8161  POWER-PRODUCTION PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Power-production plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which produce electric or other power
and control its distribution.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring coal-, oil- or natural-gas-fired 
     steam-power-generating plant;

(b)  operating and monitoring nuclear-fuelled steam-power-
     generating plant;

(c)  operating and monitoring hydroelectric-power-generating
     stations;

(d)  operating and monitoring other power generating plant, such
     as solar, tidal, geo-thermal or wind energy;

(e)  controlling power output and distribution of electricity
     from power stations;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, electric power plant
  Operator, hydroelectric power plant
  Operator, nuclear power plant
  Operator, solar power plant

3132  BROADCASTING AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT OPERATORS 
     Broadcasting and telecommunications equipment operators
control technical  functioning of equipment for transmitting
radio and television broadcasts of  prerecorded or live images
and sounds, as well as other types of telecommunications signals
on land and sea or in aircraft.
     
     Tasks include -

(a)   controlling transmitting and broadcasting systems and
      satellite systems for radio and television programmes;

(b)   controlling radio communications systems, satellite
      services and multiplex systems on land and sea and in
      aircraft;

(c)   controlling cinema projection equipment;

(d)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of
      broadcasting, telecommunications terminals and transmission
      systems, in order to identify and solve problems arising
in
      the course of their work and maintain equipment;

(e)   keeping logs of operations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, broadcasting equipment/ radio
  Operator, telecommunications equipment
  Operator, transmitting equipment/television

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Mechanic, electronics - 7243
  Technician, engineering/telecommunications - 3114

8155  PETROLEUM- AND NATURAL GAS-REFINING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Petroleum- and natural-gas-refining plant operators operate
and monitor  plant which refines, distils and treats petroleum,
petroleum-based products  and by-products, or natural gas.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which removes sulphur from
     petroleum and petroleum-based products, and byproducts;

(b)  operating and monitoring pumps which circulate petroleum
     products or water and chemical solutions through refinery;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which distil or refine
     petroleum products;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend petrol with
     chemicals and other additives;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which refine or otherwise
     treat natural gas,

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, blender/petroleum and natural gas refining
        (ethyl)
  Operator, paraffin plant
  Operator, still/petroleum and natural gas refining

8159  CHEMICAL-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers chemical-processing-plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 815, Chemical-processing
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment
which treat chemical  solutions with bleaching reagents, produce
coke or gas from coal, extrude and  form natural or synthetic
polymers into synthetic fibres, produce fertilisers,  or extract
and process radioactive materials.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring plant which treats chemical
     solutions with bleaching reagents;

(b)  operating and monitoring plant which produces coke or gas
     from coal;

(c)  operating and monitoring plant which extrudes or forms
     natural or synthetic polymers into synthetic fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring fertiliser plant equipment;

(e)  operating and monitoring plant which separates and extracts
     radioactive materials from their ores or processes such
     materials;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, coke production plant
  Operator, fertiliser plant
  Operator, synthetic-fibre production plant

8163  INCINERATOR, WATER-TREATMENT AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS

 

     Incinerator, water-treatment and related plant operators
operate and  monitor various types of plant, such as
incinerators, water treatment plant,  air and gas compressors,
pumping stations, refrigeration or heating and  ventilation
systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring incinerator machinery and equipment
     which burn garbage or other waste materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which
     purify and clarify water for human consumption or use and
     later disposal into natural water systems;

(c)  operating and monitoring air and gas compressors';

(d)  operating and monitoring pumping stations for transferring
     liquids, gases, semi-liquids and powdered substances from
     one location to another;

(e)  operating and monitoring refrigeration systems for cool or
     cold storage, or industrial processes;

(f)  operating and monitoring heating and ventilation systems ;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, incinerator/refuse disposal
  Operator, pumping-station/water
  Operator, water purification plant

8153  CHEMICAL-FILTERING- AND SEPARATING-EQUIPMENT OPERATORS
 

     Chemical-filtering- and separating-equipment operators
operate and  monitor machines and equipment which filter and
separate chemicals and related  materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment in which solutions are
     forced, under pressure, through a filtering unit;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment in which solutions are
     vacuum-drawn through filtering media fitted to a rotating
     drum;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which separate substances
     by centrifugal force;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment which removes sediment
     and water from crude oil;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, separator/chemical and related processes
  Operator, treating equipment/crude oil
  Filter-press operator, chemical and related materials

8334  LIFTING-TRUCK OPERATORS
 

     Lifting-truck operators drive, operate and monitor lifting-
truck or  similar vehicle to transport, lift and stack pallets
with goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring lifting-truck and similar equipment
     to load and unload, transport, lift and stack goods and
     pallets in terminals, harbours, ware-houses, factories and
     other establishments;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, truck/forklift

8332  EARTH-MOVING- AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Earth-moving- and related plant operators operate and
monitor machines to  excavate, grade, level and compact earth or
similar materials and lay surfaces  of asphalt and concrete.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring excavating machines, equipped with
     moveable shovel, grab-bucket or dragline bucket, to excavate
     and move earth, rock, sand, gravel or similar materials, or
     to tear down buildings or other structures;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines for digging trenches for
     sewers, drainage, water, oil, gas or similar pipelines;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines equipped with concave
     steel blade to move, distribute and level earth, sand, snow
     and other materials;

(d)  operating and monitoring equipment to remove sand, gravel
     and mud from bottom of body of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines for hammering wooden,
     concrete or steel piles into ground;

(f)  operating and monitoring power roller to compact and smooth
     layers of materials in making roads, pavements and similar
     work;

(g)  operating and monitoring machines which spread and smooth
     concrete or bituminous or tar preparations to construct
     roadways, roads or similar work;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, bulldozer
  Operator, excavator
  Operator, pile-driver
  Operator, road-roller

8161  POWER-PRODUCTION PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Power-production plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which produce electric or other power
and control its distribution.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring coal-, oil- or natural-gas-fired 
     steam-power-generating plant;

(b)  operating and monitoring nuclear-fuelled steam-power-
     generating plant;

(c)  operating and monitoring hydroelectric-power-generating
     stations;

(d)  operating and monitoring other power generating plant, such
     as solar, tidal, geo-thermal or wind energy;

(e)  controlling power output and distribution of electricity
     from power stations;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, electric power plant
  Operator, hydroelectric power plant
  Operator, nuclear power plant
  Operator, solar power plant

8275  FRUIT-, VEGETABLE- AND NUT-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fruit-, vegetable- and nut-processing machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which extract juice from fruit and
vegetables or oil from  oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit, and
which process fruit, vegetables and  nuts by drying, cooking,
canning or freezing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which extract juice from
     fruit and vegetables by heating or pressing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     oil from oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make margarine and
     similar products from animal and vegetable oils;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare fruit,
     vegetables and nuts for further processing ;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which dry, cook, can,
     freeze or otherwise process fruit, vegetables and nuts

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fruit processing
  Machine-operator, vegetable processing
  Press-operator, edible oils
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Expeller, oil - 7414
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production - 8278
  Preserver, fruit - 7414
  Preserver, vegetable - 7414

8154  CHEMICAL-STILL AND REACTOR OPERATORS (EXCEPT PETROLEUM AND NATURAL GAS)
 

     Still and reactor operators (except petroleum and natural
gas)         operate  and monitor equipment which distils and
             refines chemicals, except petroleum.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment in which crude liquid
     chemicals are treated to refine or separate them into their
     chemical constituents;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment which performs a sequence
     of operations in a chemical reaction process;

(c)  operating and monitoring evaporation tanks, vacuum pans or
     similar devices to concentrate solutions and suspensions;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, converter/chemical processes (except petroleum
        and natural gas)
  Operator, reactor/chemical processes (except petroleum
        and natural gas)
  Operator, still/turpentine

8272  DAIRY-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Dairy-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  process milk and cream and make dairy products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which pasteurise,
     homogenise and heat-treat milk and cream;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which make condensed or
     powdered milk;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make butter cheese
     and other milk or milk-based products;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
 Machine-operator, dairy products
 Machine-operator, pasteurising/milk
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
 Maker, butter - 7413
 Maker, cheese - 7413

8275  FRUIT-, VEGETABLE- AND NUT-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fruit-, vegetable- and nut-processing machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which extract juice from fruit and
vegetables or oil from  oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit, and
which process fruit, vegetables and  nuts by drying, cooking,
canning or freezing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which extract juice from
     fruit and vegetables by heating or pressing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     oil from oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make margarine and
     similar products from animal and vegetable oils;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare fruit,
     vegetables and nuts for further processing ;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which dry, cook, can,
     freeze or otherwise process fruit, vegetables and nuts

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fruit processing
  Machine-operator, vegetable processing
  Press-operator, edible oils
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Expeller, oil - 7414
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production - 8278
  Preserver, fruit - 7414
  Preserver, vegetable - 7414

8279  TOBACCO PRODUCTION MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Tobacco production machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  process tobacco and make cigarettes and other
tobacco products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which process tobacco in
     preparation for manufacturing cigarettes and other tobacco
     products;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which produce cigarettes
     and other tobacco products;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cigar production
  Machine-operator, cigarette production
  Machine-operator, tobacco processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Grader, tobacco - 741 6
  Maker, cigar - 741 6

8163  INCINERATOR, WATER-TREATMENT AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS

 

     Incinerator, water-treatment and related plant operators
operate and  monitor various types of plant, such as
incinerators, water treatment plant,  air and gas compressors,
pumping stations, refrigeration or heating and  ventilation
systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring incinerator machinery and equipment
     which burn garbage or other waste materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which
     purify and clarify water for human consumption or use and
     later disposal into natural water systems;

(c)  operating and monitoring air and gas compressors';

(d)  operating and monitoring pumping stations for transferring
     liquids, gases, semi-liquids and powdered substances from
     one location to another;

(e)  operating and monitoring refrigeration systems for cool or
     cold storage, or industrial processes;

(f)  operating and monitoring heating and ventilation systems ;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, incinerator/refuse disposal
  Operator, pumping-station/water
  Operator, water purification plant

8333  CRANE, HOIST AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Crane, hoist and related plant operators operate and monitor
cranes and  other hoisting equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mobile or stationary cranes with
     mobile or fixed jib or boom ;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment for hoisting, lowering
     or raising men and materials on construction site or in
     mine;

(c)  operating and monitoring ski-lifts and similar equipment;

(d)  operating and monitoring machinery used to haul ferry or
     barge with goods, passengers and vehicles across short
     stretches of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machinery to open and close bridge
     for the passage of road and water traffic;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, crane
  Operator, hoist

8161  POWER-PRODUCTION PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Power-production plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment which produce electric or other power
and control its distribution.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring coal-, oil- or natural-gas-fired 
     steam-power-generating plant;

(b)  operating and monitoring nuclear-fuelled steam-power-
     generating plant;

(c)  operating and monitoring hydroelectric-power-generating
     stations;

(d)  operating and monitoring other power generating plant, such
     as solar, tidal, geo-thermal or wind energy;

(e)  controlling power output and distribution of electricity
     from power stations;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, electric power plant
  Operator, hydroelectric power plant
  Operator, nuclear power plant
  Operator, solar power plant

8278  BREWERS, WINE AND OTHER BEVERAGE  MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Brewers, wine and other beverage machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which mix, press, or malt and ferment
grains and fruit to make malt  liquors, wine and other alcoholic
or non-alcoholic beverages, except fruit and  vegetable juices.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which process barley and
     other grains used in making distilled and malt liquors, and
     controlling the fermentation process,

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which process grapes and
     other fruit used in making wines, and controlling the
     fermentation process;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which increase or reduce the
     alcohol content of alcoholic beverages;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend wines and
     liquors to obtain desired tastes and flavours;
(e)  operating and monitoring machines which make non-alcoholic
     beverages, except fruit and vegetable juices;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Brewer
  Machine-operator, malting/spirits
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, fruit juice production - 8275
  Taster, wine - 7415

8141  WOOD-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Wood-processing-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment for sawing wood, cutting veneer and
making plywood, and otherwise  prepare wood for further use.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring log in-feed and conveyor systems;

(b)  operating and monitoring head saws, resaws and multiblade
     saws to saw logs, cants, flitches, slabs or wings and remove
     rough edges from sawn timber;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut veneer;

(d)  operating and monitoring plywood core-laying machines and
     hot-plate plywood presses;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, band-saw
  Operator, sawmill
  Operator, wood-processing plant
  Press-operator, plywood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Wood seasoner - 7421
  Wood treater - 7421

2221  MEDICAL DOCTORS 
     Medical doctors conduct research, improve or develop
concepts, theories  and operational methods, and apply preventive
or curative measures.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research into human disorders and illnesses and
      preventive or curative methods;

(b)   conducting medical examinations and making diagnoses;

(c)   prescribing and giving treatment for diagnosed illnesses,
      disorders or injuries;

(d)   giving specialised medical or surgical treatment for
      particular types of illnesses, disorders or injuries;

(e)   giving advice on and applying preventive medicine methods
      and treatments;

(f)   participating in the development and implementation of
      public health laws and regulations for safeguarding and
      promoting the health of a community;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Doctor, medical
  Ophthalmologist
  Physician
  Psychiatrist
  Surgeon

3224  OPTOMETRISTS AND OPTICIANS 
     Optometrists and opticians prescribe and fit glasses and
contact lenses  and advise on their use or the use of other
visual aids, as well as on proper  lighting for work and reading.

     Tasks include -

(a)   examining eyes and prescribing glasses, contact lenses or
      other treatment to improve vision, referring cases which
      may require medical treatment to Medical doctors;

(b)   advising on the proper use of glasses and contact lenses,
      appropriate lighting for work or reading and other visual
      aids;

(c)   fitting prescribed lenses into frames and fitting frames
      or contact lenses to customers;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Optician, dispensing
  Optician, ophthalmic
  Optometrist

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Ophthalmologist - 2221

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

5132  INSTITUTION-BASED PERSONAL CARE WORKERS
 
     Institution-based personal care workers perform simple tasks
to assist  medical, nursing, midwifery and dental professionals
or associate 
professionals in their duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing patients for examination or treatment;

(b)  changing bed-linen and helping patients with their toilet;

(c)  providing hot-water bottles and other comforts for patients;

(d)  serving and collecting food trays and feeding patients
     needing help;

(e)  sterilising surgical and other instruments and equipment;

(f)  assisting dentists by adjusting lights and passing tools and
     materials as requested;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Aid, dental
  Aid, nursing/clinic
  Aid, nursing/hospital
  Ambulance man
  Ambulance woman
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Aid, nursing/home - 5133
  Nurse, associate professional - 3231
  Nurse, professional - 2230

3414  TRAVEL CONSULTANTS AND ORGANISERS 
     Travel consultants and organisers plan itineraries and
schedule travel  accommodation for customers, and organise or
sell complete group travel tours  for business or vacation.     Tasks include -

(a)   obtaining information about availability, cost and
      convenience of d efferent types of transport and
      accommodation, ascertaining customers' requirements and
      advising them on travel arrangements'.

(b)   making and confirming travel and hotel reservations, giving
      customers tickets and vouchers and receiving payments;

(c)   organising complete group tours for business or vacation
      travel and selling them to groups or individuals;

(d)   helping customers in obtaining necessary certificates and
      travel documents;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Consultant, travel
  Organiser, travel

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Clerk, ticket issuing/travel - 4221
  Clerk, travel agency - 4221
  General manager, travel agency - 1319

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

2211  BIOLOGISTS, BOTANISTS, ZOOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Biologists, botanists, zoologists and related professionals
conduct  research, improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and  apply scientific knowledge relating to
biology, microbiology, bacteriology,  cytology, genetics,
zoology, botany and ecology, especially in the fields of 
medicine and agriculture.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   conducting field and laboratory experiments concerning all
      forms of life by identifying and classifying human, animal,
      insect or plant specimens, and studying their origin,
      development, chemical and physical form, structure,
      composition, and life and reproductive processes;

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure, development and characteristics of micro-
      organisms such as bacteria or viruses;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the factors
      involved in the origin, development and transmission of
      hereditary characteristics in human beings, animals or
      plants;

(e)   studying all forms of plant life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(f)   studying all forms of animal life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(g)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure and functions of living cells, and the influence
      of physical and chemical factors upon normal and abnormal
      cells;

(h)   studying inter-relationships of animal and plant life and
      the environmental factors involved, and giving professional
      advice to related disciplines;

(i)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bacteriologist
  Biologist
  Botanist
  Ecologist
  Microbiologist
  Zoologist

2222  DENTISTS 
     Dentists conduct research, improve or develop concepts,
theories and  operational methods, and apply medical knowledge
in the field of dentistry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research into dental and related disorders and
      illnesses and preventive or curative methods;

(b)   making diagnoses, advising on and giving necessary dental
      treatment;

(c)   giving surgical, medical and other forms of treatment for
      particular types of dental and oral diseases and disorders;

(d)   participating in public action to maintain or improve
      standards of oral health and dental care:

(e)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(f)   performing related tasks,

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Dentist
  Dentist, pedodontistry
  Surgeon, oral/dentistry

3229  MODERN HEALTH ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS (EXCEPT NURSING) NOT
ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers modern health associate professionals
(except  nursing) not classified elsewhere in Minor group 322,
Modem health associate  professionals (except nursing).

     For instance, here should be classified those who practise
homeopathy,  plan and carry out therapeutical activities to help
the mentally unbalanced,  ill, or physically handicapped, deal
with speech impediments, provide eye  exercises as remedial
treatment, or deal with orientation problems of the  blind.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   treating a particular illness by giving the patient
      infinitesimal doses of the bodies which provoke similar
      illnesses;

(b)   planning or carrying out therapeutic activities connected
      with education, vocational training or recreation in order
      to help the mentally unbalanced, ill, or physically
      handicapped;

(c)   dealing with pronunciation defects;

(d)   correcting sonority of language pronunciation;

(e)   applying remedial treatment to the eye muscles by means of
      eye exercises;

(f)   treating orientation problems of the blind;

(g)   performing related tasks;


(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 Homeopath
  Orthoepist
  Orthophonist
  Therapist, occupational

3224  OPTOMETRISTS AND OPTICIANS 
     Optometrists and opticians prescribe and fit glasses and
contact lenses  and advise on their use or the use of other
visual aids, as well as on proper  lighting for work and reading.

     Tasks include -

(a)   examining eyes and prescribing glasses, contact lenses or
      other treatment to improve vision, referring cases which
      may require medical treatment to Medical doctors;

(b)   advising on the proper use of glasses and contact lenses,
      appropriate lighting for work or reading and other visual
      aids;

(c)   fitting prescribed lenses into frames and fitting frames
      or contact lenses to customers;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Optician, dispensing
  Optician, ophthalmic
  Optometrist

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Ophthalmologist - 2221

2221  MEDICAL DOCTORS 
     Medical doctors conduct research, improve or develop
concepts, theories  and operational methods, and apply preventive
or curative measures.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research into human disorders and illnesses and
      preventive or curative methods;

(b)   conducting medical examinations and making diagnoses;

(c)   prescribing and giving treatment for diagnosed illnesses,
      disorders or injuries;

(d)   giving specialised medical or surgical treatment for
      particular types of illnesses, disorders or injuries;

(e)   giving advice on and applying preventive medicine methods
      and treatments;

(f)   participating in the development and implementation of
      public health laws and regulations for safeguarding and
      promoting the health of a community;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Doctor, medical
  Ophthalmologist
  Physician
  Psychiatrist
  Surgeon

3226  PHYSIOTHERAPISTS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Physiotherapists and related associate professionals treat
disorders of  bones, muscles and parts of the circulatory or the
nervous system by  manipulative methods, and ultrasound, heating,
laser or similar techniques, or  apply physiotherapy and related
therapies as part of the treatment for the physically disabled,
mentally ill or unbalanced.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising communities and individuals on correct body
      postures, for work or otherwise, to avoid injuries and
      strain and to strengthen muscles;


(b)   conducting examinations to make diagnoses of disorders of
      bones, muscles and parts of the circulatory or the nervous
      system to determine proper treatment or refer to Medical
      doctors, if necessary;

(c)   treating disorders of bones, muscles and parts of the
      circulatory or the nervous system by manipulative methods,
      and the use of ultrasound, heating, laser or similar
      techniques;

(d)   massaging client or patient to improve circulation, soothe
      or stimulate nerves, facilitate elimination of waste
      matter, stretch contracted tendons and produce other
      therapeutic effects;

(e)   examining body deformities and disorders to determine and
      write specifications for artificial limbs or other
      appliances, helping to fit them and explaining their use;

(f)   applying physiotherapy and related techniques as part of
      the treatment of the mentally ill or unbalanced;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Chiropractor
  Physiotherapist
  Podiatrist

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Therapist, occupational - 3229

2221  MEDICAL DOCTORS 
     Medical doctors conduct research, improve or develop
concepts, theories  and operational methods, and apply preventive
or curative measures.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research into human disorders and illnesses and
      preventive or curative methods;

(b)   conducting medical examinations and making diagnoses;

(c)   prescribing and giving treatment for diagnosed illnesses,
      disorders or injuries;

(d)   giving specialised medical or surgical treatment for
      particular types of illnesses, disorders or injuries;

(e)   giving advice on and applying preventive medicine methods
      and treatments;

(f)   participating in the development and implementation of
      public health laws and regulations for safeguarding and
      promoting the health of a community;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Doctor, medical
  Ophthalmologist
  Physician
  Psychiatrist
  Surgeon

7141  PAINTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Painters and related workers prepare surfaces of buildings
and other  structures for painting, apply protective and
decorative coats of paint or  similar materials or cover interior
walls and ceilings of buildings with  wallpaper, silk or other
fabrics.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cleaning and preparing walls and other surfaces of buildings
     for painting or wallpapering;

(b)  applying or spraying paint, varnish, shellac and similar
     materials to surfaces, fixtures and fittings of buildings;

(c)  measuring and mounting wallpaper, silk or other fabrics on
     interior walls and ceilings of buildings and ships;

(d)  applying or spraying paint, red lead, bituminous emulsion
     and similar materials to ships' hulls and metal structures,
     steel frameworks of buildings, bridges and metal
     constructions;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers in this group.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Painter, building
  Paperhanger

7412  BAKERS, PASTRY-COOKS AND CONFECTIONERY MAKERS
 

     Bakers, pastry-cooks and confectionery makers make various
kinds of  bread, cakes, and other flour products, as well as
handmade chocolate and  sugar confectionery.

     Tasks include  -

(a)  making bread, cakes, biscuits, pastries, pies and other
     flour products;

(b)  making handmade confectionery from mixtures of sugar,
     chocolate and other ingredients with the help of tools and
     some machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Baker
  Confectioner
  Maker, chocolate
 Pastry-cook
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cook - 5122
  Machine-operator, bakery products 8274
  Machine-operator, bread production 8274
  Machine-operator, chocolate production - 8274

9322  HAND PACKERS AND OTHER MANUFACTURING LABOURERS
 

     Hand packers and other manufacturing labourers pack
materials or products  by hand and perform a variety of simple
routine tasks connected with  manufacturing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  packing materials or products by hand in boxes, bags,
     cartons, crates, kegs and other containers for shipment or
     storage;

(b)  moving, lifting, carrying, loading, unloading or washing raw
     materials or products, in various manufacturing  industries
     or repair and maintenance establishments;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, manufacturing
  Packer, hand
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, labelling - 8290
  Machine-operator, packing - 8290

7142  VARNISHERS AND RELATED PAINTERS
 

     Varnishers and related painters paint vehicles such as cars,
buses or  trucks, or apply protective coats of enamel or varnish
on metal, wooden and  other manufactured articles, usually with
a hand-spraying device.

     Tasks include -

(a)  painting cars, buses, trucks and other vehicles, and
     applying varnish and other protective coatings;

(b)  applying paint as well as protective coatings of enamel or
     varnish on metal, wooden and other manufactured products,
     usually with a 
     hand-spraying device;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Painter, manufactured articles
  Painter, vehicle
  Varnisher, manufactured articles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, painting/metal 8223
  Machine-operator, painting/wood 8240
  Painter, building - 7141
  Painter, decorative - 7324

7141  PAINTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Painters and related workers prepare surfaces of buildings
and other  structures for painting, apply protective and
decorative coats of paint or  similar materials or cover interior
walls and ceilings of buildings with  wallpaper, silk or other
fabrics.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cleaning and preparing walls and other surfaces of buildings
     for painting or wallpapering;

(b)  applying or spraying paint, varnish, shellac and similar
     materials to surfaces, fixtures and fittings of buildings;

(c)  measuring and mounting wallpaper, silk or other fabrics on
     interior walls and ceilings of buildings and ships;

(d)  applying or spraying paint, red lead, bituminous emulsion
     and similar materials to ships' hulls and metal structures,
     steel frameworks of buildings, bridges and metal
     constructions;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers in this group.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Painter, building
  Paperhanger

7324  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED DECORATIVE PAINTERS
 

     Glass, ceramics and related decorative painters decorate
articles made of  wood, metal, textiles, glass, ceramics and
other materials, and plan, lay out  and paint letters and designs
to make signs.

     Tasks include -

(a)  painting designs on articles with a brush, by spraying, or
     by transferring designs using stencils, transfers, rubber
     stamps and other means;

(b)  applying, for decorative purposes, paint, glaze, enamel,
     stain, varnish, lacquer and similar materials on articles
     by spraying or dipping;

(c)  coating mirror glass with silver solutions;

(d)  laying out and painting letters and designs to make signs;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, glass
  Painter, decorative
  Sign-writer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, painting/ceramics - 8131
  Machine-operator, painting/glass - 8131
  Painter, building - 7141
  Painter, manufactured articles - 7142
  Painter, vehicle - 7142

7141  PAINTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Painters and related workers prepare surfaces of buildings
and other  structures for painting, apply protective and
decorative coats of paint or  similar materials or cover interior
walls and ceilings of buildings with  wallpaper, silk or other
fabrics.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cleaning and preparing walls and other surfaces of buildings
     for painting or wallpapering;

(b)  applying or spraying paint, varnish, shellac and similar
     materials to surfaces, fixtures and fittings of buildings;

(c)  measuring and mounting wallpaper, silk or other fabrics on
     interior walls and ceilings of buildings and ships;

(d)  applying or spraying paint, red lead, bituminous emulsion
     and similar materials to ships' hulls and metal structures,
     steel frameworks of buildings, bridges and metal
     constructions;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers in this group.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Painter, building
  Paperhanger

7142  VARNISHERS AND RELATED PAINTERS
 

     Varnishers and related painters paint vehicles such as cars,
buses or  trucks, or apply protective coats of enamel or varnish
on metal, wooden and  other manufactured articles, usually with
a hand-spraying device.

     Tasks include -

(a)  painting cars, buses, trucks and other vehicles, and
     applying varnish and other protective coatings;

(b)  applying paint as well as protective coatings of enamel or
     varnish on metal, wooden and other manufactured products,
     usually with a 
     hand-spraying device;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Painter, manufactured articles
  Painter, vehicle
  Varnisher, manufactured articles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, painting/metal 8223
  Machine-operator, painting/wood 8240
  Painter, building - 7141
  Painter, decorative - 7324

2452  SCULPTORS, PAINTERS AND RELATED ARTISTS 
     Sculptors, painters and related artists create and execute
works of art  by sculpting, painting, drawing, creating cartoons,
engraving or using related  techniques.

     Tasks include -

(a)   creating representational or abstract three-dimensional or
      relief forms by shaping and combining materials such as
      wood, stone, clay or metal;

(b)   creating representational or abstract drawings and
      paintings using pencils, ink, chalk, oil paints, water
      colours or through the application of other techniques;

(c)   creating drawings and engraving or etching them on metal,
      wood, or other materials;

(d)   creating cartoons to depict persons and events, often in
      caricature;

(e)   creating and executing designs and illustrations for books,
      magazines, advertising and similar purposes;

(f)   restoring damaged, soiled and faded paintings and other art
      objects;

(g)   painting miniatures;

(h)   per-forming related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Artist, commercial
  Cartoonist
  Engraver-etcher, artistic
  Painter, portrait
  Restorer, picture
  Sculptor

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Designer, industrial products - 3471

7141  PAINTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Painters and related workers prepare surfaces of buildings
and other  structures for painting, apply protective and
decorative coats of paint or  similar materials or cover interior
walls and ceilings of buildings with  wallpaper, silk or other
fabrics.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cleaning and preparing walls and other surfaces of buildings
     for painting or wallpapering;

(b)  applying or spraying paint, varnish, shellac and similar
     materials to surfaces, fixtures and fittings of buildings;

(c)  measuring and mounting wallpaper, silk or other fabrics on
     interior walls and ceilings of buildings and ships;

(d)  applying or spraying paint, red lead, bituminous emulsion
     and similar materials to ships' hulls and metal structures,
     steel frameworks of buildings, bridges and metal
     constructions;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers in this group.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Painter, building
  Paperhanger

2452  SCULPTORS, PAINTERS AND RELATED ARTISTS 
     Sculptors, painters and related artists create and execute
works of art  by sculpting, painting, drawing, creating cartoons,
engraving or using related  techniques.

     Tasks include -

(a)   creating representational or abstract three-dimensional or
      relief forms by shaping and combining materials such as
      wood, stone, clay or metal;

(b)   creating representational or abstract drawings and
      paintings using pencils, ink, chalk, oil paints, water
      colours or through the application of other techniques;

(c)   creating drawings and engraving or etching them on metal,
      wood, or other materials;

(d)   creating cartoons to depict persons and events, often in
      caricature;

(e)   creating and executing designs and illustrations for books,
      magazines, advertising and similar purposes;

(f)   restoring damaged, soiled and faded paintings and other art
      objects;

(g)   painting miniatures;

(h)   per-forming related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Artist, commercial
  Cartoonist
  Engraver-etcher, artistic
  Painter, portrait
  Restorer, picture
  Sculptor

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Designer, industrial products - 3471

7141  PAINTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Painters and related workers prepare surfaces of buildings
and other  structures for painting, apply protective and
decorative coats of paint or  similar materials or cover interior
walls and ceilings of buildings with  wallpaper, silk or other
fabrics.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cleaning and preparing walls and other surfaces of buildings
     for painting or wallpapering;

(b)  applying or spraying paint, varnish, shellac and similar
     materials to surfaces, fixtures and fittings of buildings;

(c)  measuring and mounting wallpaper, silk or other fabrics on
     interior walls and ceilings of buildings and ships;

(d)  applying or spraying paint, red lead, bituminous emulsion
     and similar materials to ships' hulls and metal structures,
     steel frameworks of buildings, bridges and metal
     constructions;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers in this group.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Painter, building
  Paperhanger

7142  VARNISHERS AND RELATED PAINTERS
 

     Varnishers and related painters paint vehicles such as cars,
buses or  trucks, or apply protective coats of enamel or varnish
on metal, wooden and  other manufactured articles, usually with
a hand-spraying device.

     Tasks include -

(a)  painting cars, buses, trucks and other vehicles, and
     applying varnish and other protective coatings;

(b)  applying paint as well as protective coatings of enamel or
     varnish on metal, wooden and other manufactured products,
     usually with a 
     hand-spraying device;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Painter, manufactured articles
  Painter, vehicle
  Varnisher, manufactured articles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, painting/metal 8223
  Machine-operator, painting/wood 8240
  Painter, building - 7141
  Painter, decorative - 7324

7141  PAINTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Painters and related workers prepare surfaces of buildings
and other  structures for painting, apply protective and
decorative coats of paint or  similar materials or cover interior
walls and ceilings of buildings with  wallpaper, silk or other
fabrics.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cleaning and preparing walls and other surfaces of buildings
     for painting or wallpapering;

(b)  applying or spraying paint, varnish, shellac and similar
     materials to surfaces, fixtures and fittings of buildings;

(c)  measuring and mounting wallpaper, silk or other fabrics on
     interior walls and ceilings of buildings and ships;

(d)  applying or spraying paint, red lead, bituminous emulsion
     and similar materials to ships' hulls and metal structures,
     steel frameworks of buildings, bridges and metal
     constructions;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers in this group.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Painter, building
  Paperhanger

2114  GEOLOGISTS AND GEOPHYSICISTS 
     Geologists and geophysicists conduct research, improve or
develop  concepts, theories and operational methods, or apply
scientific knowledge  relating to geology and geophysics in such
fields as oil, gas and mineral  exploitation, water conservation,
civil engineering, telecommunications and  navigation.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods related to geology and
      geophysics;

(b)   studying composition and structure of the earth's crust,
      examining rocks, minerals, fossil remains, etc., to
      determine processes affecting the development of the earth,
      trace evolution of past life and establish nature and
      chronology of geological formations;

(c)   interpreting research data and preparing geological
      reports, maps, charts and diagrams;

(d)   applying results of research to assess development
      potential of mineral, gas and oil deposits and underground
      water resources;

(e)   applying geological knowledge to problems encountered in
      civil engineering projects such as the construction of
      dams, bridges, tunnels and large buildings;

(f)   investigating and measuring seismic, gravitational,
      electrical, thermal and magnetic forces affecting the
      earth;

(g)   investigating and measuring optical and acoustic phenomena
      in the atmosphere;

(h)   estimating weight, size and mass of the earth and
      composition and structure of its interior, and studying the
      nature and activity of volcanoes, glaciers and earthquakes;

(i)   charting the earth's magnetic field and applying this and
      other collected data for purposes of broadcasting and
      navigation;

(j)   studying and measuring physical properties of seas and the
      atmosphere and their inter-relationship, such as the
      exchange of thermal energy;

(k)   locating and determining the nature and extent of oil, gas
      and mineral deposits and of ground-water resources, using
      seismological, gravimetric, magnetic, electrical or
      radiometric methods;

(l)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(m)   performing related tasks;

(n)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Geologist
  Geophysicist

5152  FORTUNE-TELLERS, PALMISTS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Fortune-tellers, palmists and related workers recount past
and forecast  future events on the basis of the characteristics
of clients' palms, samples  of playing cards drawn at random or
other factors.

     Tasks include -

(a)  interpreting characteristics of clients' palms, samples of
     playing cards, position of tea leaves or coffee remnants in
     a cup, shapes and patterns of bones of dead animals, etc.;

(b)  forecasting future events on the basis of these
     interpretations;

(c)  giving warnings and advice on possible courses of action;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Fortune-teller
  Numerologist
  Palmist

7141  PAINTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Painters and related workers prepare surfaces of buildings
and other  structures for painting, apply protective and
decorative coats of paint or  similar materials or cover interior
walls and ceilings of buildings with  wallpaper, silk or other
fabrics.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cleaning and preparing walls and other surfaces of buildings
     for painting or wallpapering;

(b)  applying or spraying paint, varnish, shellac and similar
     materials to surfaces, fixtures and fittings of buildings;

(c)  measuring and mounting wallpaper, silk or other fabrics on
     interior walls and ceilings of buildings and ships;

(d)  applying or spraying paint, red lead, bituminous emulsion
     and similar materials to ships' hulls and metal structures,
     steel frameworks of buildings, bridges and metal
     constructions;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers in this group.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Painter, building
  Paperhanger

2211  BIOLOGISTS, BOTANISTS, ZOOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Biologists, botanists, zoologists and related professionals
conduct  research, improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and  apply scientific knowledge relating to
biology, microbiology, bacteriology,  cytology, genetics,
zoology, botany and ecology, especially in the fields of 
medicine and agriculture.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   conducting field and laboratory experiments concerning all
      forms of life by identifying and classifying human, animal,
      insect or plant specimens, and studying their origin,
      development, chemical and physical form, structure,
      composition, and life and reproductive processes;

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure, development and characteristics of micro-
      organisms such as bacteria or viruses;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the factors
      involved in the origin, development and transmission of
      hereditary characteristics in human beings, animals or
      plants;

(e)   studying all forms of plant life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(f)   studying all forms of animal life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(g)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure and functions of living cells, and the influence
      of physical and chemical factors upon normal and abnormal
      cells;

(h)   studying inter-relationships of animal and plant life and
      the environmental factors involved, and giving professional
      advice to related disciplines;

(i)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bacteriologist
  Biologist
  Botanist
  Ecologist
  Microbiologist
  Zoologist

3480  RELIGIOUS ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Religious associate professionals undertake religious works,
devote their  lives to contemplative prayer or meditation, and
preach and propagate the  teachings of their particular religion.     Tasks include -

(a)   undertaking religious works;

(b)   living as a member of a separate community, and observing
      its rules and practices;

(c)   devoting their lives to contemplative prayer or meditation;

(d)   preaching and propagating the teachings of a particular
      religious faith;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Monk, associate professional
  Nun, associate professional
  Preacher, lay
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Bonze - 2460	
  Imam - 2460
  Minister, religion - 2460
  Monk, professional - 2460
  Nun, professional - 2460
  Poojari - 2460
  Priest - 2460
  Rabbi- 2460

1110  LEGISLATORS 
      Legislators determine, formulate, and direct policies of
national, state,  regional or local governments, and make,
ratify, amend or repeal laws, public  rules and regulations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   presiding over or participating in the proceedings of
      legislative bodies and administrative councils of national,
      state, regional or local governments or legislative
      assemblies;

(b)   determining, formulating, and directing policies of
      national, state, regional or local governments;

(c)   making, ratifying, amending or repealing laws, public rules
      and regulations within the framework of a Constitution
      determining their powers and fields of jurisdiction;

(d)   serving on government administrative boards or official
      committees;

(e)   promoting the interests of the constituencies which they
      represent;

(f)   as members of the government, directing senior
      administrators and officials of government departments and
      agencies in the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Minister, government

President, government

Prime minister

Secretary, government/legislative

Senator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Secretary, government/non legislative - 1120

3460  SOCIAL WORK ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
      Social work associate professionals provide guidance to
clients in social and related matters to enable them to find and
use resources to overcome difficulties and achieve particular
goals.      Tasks include:

(a)   helping individuals and families with personal and social
      problems;

(b)   collecting information relevant to clients' needs and
      advising them on their rights and obligations;

(c)   analysing the client's situation and presenting alternative
      approaches to resolving problems;

(d)   compiling case records or reports for court and other legal
      proceedings;

(e)   planning, evaluating, improving and developing welfare
      services;

(f)   working to prevent development of delinquency or to achieve
      rehabilitation of delinquents by organising and supervising
      social, recreational and educational activities in youth
      clubs, community centres and similar organisations, or by
      other means;

(g)   helping physically or mentally handicapped persons to
      obtain adequate treatment and improve their ability to
      function in society;

(h)   planning, organising or providing home-help services;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Social worker, associate professional
  Social worker, associate professional/enterprise
  Welfare worker, associate professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Social worker, professional - 2446
  Social worker, professional/enterprise - 2446
  Welfare worker, professional -2446

2446  SOCIAL WORK PROFESSIONALS 
     Social work professionals provide guidance to clients in
social and  related matters to enable them to find and use
resources to overcome  difficulties and achieve particular goals.

     Tasks include

(a)   helping individuals and families with personal and social
      problems;

(b)   collecting information relevant to clients' needs and
      advising them on their rights and obligations;

(c)   analysing the client's situation and presenting alternative
      approaches to resolving problems;

(d)   compiling case records or reports for courts and other
      legal proceedings;

(e)   planning, evaluating, improving and developing welfare
      services;

(f)   working to prevent development of delinquency or to achieve
      rehabilitation of delinquents by organising and supervising
      social, recreational and educational activities in youth
      clubs, community centres and similar organisations, or by
      other means;

(g)   helping physically or mentally handicapped persons to
      obtain adequate treatment and improve their ability to
      function in society;

(h)   planning, organising or providing home-help services;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Social worker, professional
  Social worker, professional/enterprise
  Welfare worker, professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Social worker, associate professional - 3460
  Social worker, associate professional/enterprise - 3460
  Welfare worker, associate professional - 3460

7132  FLOOR LAYERS AND TILE SETTERS
 

     Floor layers and tile setters install, maintain and repair
parquet and  other kinds of flooring, or they cover floors, walls
and other surfaces with tiles or mosaic panels for decorative or
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing floor areas for covering with parquet, tiles or
     other materials;

(b)  assembling parquetry pieces or other materials and laying
     them on floors according to design and other specifications;

(c)  preparing wall areas for covering with tiles or other
     materials for decorative or other purposes such as
     acoustical insulation;

(d)  setting tiles and constructing and laying mosaic panels to
     walls, floors and other surfaces;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Parquetry worker 
 Setter, marble 
 Setter, tile

5149  OTHER PERSONAL SERVICES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers personal services workers not
classified elsewhere  in Minor group 514, Other personal services
workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who undertake
to be dancing  partners or social escorts, or perform duties of
club or night-club hostesses  or hosts.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  accompanying clients to restaurants and other outings;

(b)  acting as a dancing partner;

(c)  welcoming clients to a night-club and ensuring that they are
     entertained well;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Escort, social
  Host, club
  Hostess, club
  Partner, dancing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Companion - 5142

2460  RELIGIOUS PROFESSIONALS 
      
     Religious professionals function as perpetrators of the
sacred  traditions, practices and beliefs and celebrate or
administer at the rituals  of initiation, preside over ritual
reenactments of creative, redemptive or  salvatory events, and
offer sacrifices to the gods or to one God.

     Tasks include -

(a)   perpetuating sacred traditions, practices and beliefs;

(d)   conducting religious services, rites and ceremonies;

(c)   undertaking various administrative and social duties,
      including a ending committees and meetings of religious
      organisations;

(d)   providing spiritual and moral guidance in accordance with
      the religion professed;

(e)   propagating religious doctrines in own country or abroad;

(f)   preparing religious sermons and preachings;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bonze
  Imam
  Minister, religion
  Monk, professional
  Nun, professional
  Poojari
  Priest
  Rabbi

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Monk, associate professional - 3480
  Nun, associate professional - 3480
  Preacher, lay - 3480

9211  FARM-HANDS AND LABOURERS
 

     Farm-hands and labourers help with farm work by performing
a variety of  simple farming tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging and shovelling to clear ditches or for other
     purposes;

(b)  loading, unloading various crops and other materials;

(c)  raking, pitching and stacking hay;

(d)  watering and weeding;

(e)  picking fruit, vegetables and various plants;

(f)  helping with planting, harvesting and general farmwork;

(g)  feeding, watering, and cleaning animals and keeping their
     quarters clean;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, farm
  Picker, fruit
Some related occupations classified else where:
  Shepherd - 6121
  Farm worker, skilled/field crops - 6111
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock - 6121

7412  BAKERS, PASTRY-COOKS AND CONFECTIONERY MAKERS
 

     Bakers, pastry-cooks and confectionery makers make various
kinds of  bread, cakes, and other flour products, as well as
handmade chocolate and  sugar confectionery.

     Tasks include  -

(a)  making bread, cakes, biscuits, pastries, pies and other
     flour products;

(b)  making handmade confectionery from mixtures of sugar,
     chocolate and other ingredients with the help of tools and
     some machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Baker
  Confectioner
  Maker, chocolate
 Pastry-cook
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cook - 5122
  Machine-operator, bakery products 8274
  Machine-operator, bread production 8274
  Machine-operator, chocolate production - 8274

2419  BUSINESS PROFESSIONALS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers business professionals not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 241, Business professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  studying, advising on and applying operational
methods relating to various  aspects of business undertakings,
such as marketing, advertising, public  relations, application
of rules concerning patents, or steps to be taken in  setting up
and running a business, and home economics principles.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   conducting research and determining or advising on existing
      level of sales for particular products or services, and
      assessing potential markets and future trends;

(b)   planning, advising on or directing and coordinating
      production of advertising campaigns;

(c)   studying, advising on and conducting public relations
      programmes with a view to improving the public's knowledge
      and understanding of the enterprise or establishment in
      question;

(d)   giving advice concerning patents and assisting in preparing
      applications or examining applications submitted for
      registration, and writing reports setting out reasons for
      or against the granting of a patent;

(e)   studying and advising on financial, legal, organisational,
      marketing and other aspects connected with setting up and
      running a business;

(f)   studying, interpreting and informing about and advising on
      principles of home economics and management with a view to
      promoting welfare of families, as well as the consumption
      of household goods, or the promotion of new products;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Account executive, advertising
  Analyst, market research
  Home economist
  Officer, public relations
  Patent agent

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Company secretary - 1231

2212  PHARMACOLOGISTS, PATHOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Pharmacologists, pathologists and related professionals
conduct research,  improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and apply  scientific knowledge relating to
anatomy, biochemistry, biophysics,  physiology, pathology, or
pharmacology, in such fields as medicine,  agriculture or
industry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   studying and conducting experiments 

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the chemical
      composition and processes of living organisms;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the life
      processes and functions of human, animal or plant organs,
      tissues, cells, glands and systems under normal and
      abnormal or exceptional conditions;

(e)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the nature,
      causes and development of human, animal or plant diseases
      and disorders;

(f)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the effects
      of drugs and other substances on the tissues, organs and
      physiological processes of human beings and animals, and
      improving existing or developing new drugs;

(g)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Anatomist
  Biochemist
  Biophysicist
  Pathologist
  Pharmacologist
  Physiologist

5169  PROTECTIVE SERVICES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers protective services workers not
classified  elsewhere in Minor group 516, Protective services
workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who patrol
buildings and  areas to prevent illegal entry, theft, violence
and other unlawful acts, and  who, if necessary, use force to
prevent such acts and apprehend perpetrators,  as well as those
who act as bodyguards, life-guards or game-wardens.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  patrolling buildings and areas to prevent theft, violence,
     infractions of rules or other irregularities;

(b)  if necessary, exercising the right to use force and to 
     apprehend.perpetrators;

(c)  performing the duties of a bodyguard;

(d)  patrolling beaches and swimming pools to prevent accidents
     and to rescue bathers from drowning;

(e)  patrolling natural reserves, game parks, forest areas and
     enclosures to prevent theft and killing of game;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Bodyguard
  Game-warden
  Life-guard
  Patrolman, security
  Patrolwoman, security
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Doorkeeper - 91 52
  Guard, museum - 9152
  Watchman - 9152
  Watchwoman - 9152

5161  FIRE-FIGHTERS
 
     Fire-fighters prevent, fight and try to extinguish fires,
rescue persons and salvage property and goods during and after
fires and major accidents.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preventing, fighting and extinguishing fires;

(b)  fighting special types of fires and using special equipment
     in industrial establishments;

(c)  preventing and extinguishing fires in crashed or damaged
     aircraft and rescuing crew and passengers;

(d)  rescuing persons and salvaging property and goods during and
     after fires and major accidents;

(e)  preventing or limiting the spread of dangerous substances
in
     case of fires or accidents;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Fire-fighter
  Fire-fighter, aircraft accidents
  Fire-fighter, forest
  Salvage man, fire
  Salvage woman, fire
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Inspector, fire - 3151
  Investigator, fire - 3151
  Specialist, fire prevention - 31 51

5162  POLICE OFFICERS
 
     Police officers maintain law and order and enforce laws and
regulations.

     Tasks include -

(a)  maintaining law and order;

(b)  protecting persons and property from hazards and unlawful
     acts;

(c)  arresting persons for contraventions of the law;

(d)  directing traffic and assuming authority in the event of
     accidents;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Constable
  Patrolman, police
  Patrolwoman, police
  Police officer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Chief Constable, police - 1120
  Commissioner, police - 1120
  Inspector-general, police - 1120

5169  PROTECTIVE SERVICES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers protective services workers not
classified  elsewhere in Minor group 516, Protective services
workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who patrol
buildings and  areas to prevent illegal entry, theft, violence
and other unlawful acts, and  who, if necessary, use force to
prevent such acts and apprehend perpetrators,  as well as those
who act as bodyguards, life-guards or game-wardens.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  patrolling buildings and areas to prevent theft, violence,
     infractions of rules or other irregularities;

(b)  if necessary, exercising the right to use force and to 
     apprehend.perpetrators;

(c)  performing the duties of a bodyguard;

(d)  patrolling beaches and swimming pools to prevent accidents
     and to rescue bathers from drowning;

(e)  patrolling natural reserves, game parks, forest areas and
     enclosures to prevent theft and killing of game;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Bodyguard
  Game-warden
  Life-guard
  Patrolman, security
  Patrolwoman, security
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Doorkeeper - 91 52
  Guard, museum - 9152
  Watchman - 9152
  Watchwoman - 9152

5161  FIRE-FIGHTERS
 
     Fire-fighters prevent, fight and try to extinguish fires,
rescue persons and salvage property and goods during and after
fires and major accidents.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preventing, fighting and extinguishing fires;

(b)  fighting special types of fires and using special equipment
     in industrial establishments;

(c)  preventing and extinguishing fires in crashed or damaged
     aircraft and rescuing crew and passengers;

(d)  rescuing persons and salvaging property and goods during and
     after fires and major accidents;

(e)  preventing or limiting the spread of dangerous substances
in
     case of fires or accidents;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Fire-fighter
  Fire-fighter, aircraft accidents
  Fire-fighter, forest
  Salvage man, fire
  Salvage woman, fire
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Inspector, fire - 3151
  Investigator, fire - 3151
  Specialist, fire prevention - 31 51

5162  POLICE OFFICERS
 
     Police officers maintain law and order and enforce laws and
regulations.

     Tasks include -

(a)  maintaining law and order;

(b)  protecting persons and property from hazards and unlawful
     acts;

(c)  arresting persons for contraventions of the law;

(d)  directing traffic and assuming authority in the event of
     accidents;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Constable
  Patrolman, police
  Patrolwoman, police
  Police officer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Chief Constable, police - 1120
  Commissioner, police - 1120
  Inspector-general, police - 1120

5169  PROTECTIVE SERVICES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers protective services workers not
classified  elsewhere in Minor group 516, Protective services
workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who patrol
buildings and  areas to prevent illegal entry, theft, violence
and other unlawful acts, and  who, if necessary, use force to
prevent such acts and apprehend perpetrators,  as well as those
who act as bodyguards, life-guards or game-wardens.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  patrolling buildings and areas to prevent theft, violence,
     infractions of rules or other irregularities;

(b)  if necessary, exercising the right to use force and to 
     apprehend.perpetrators;

(c)  performing the duties of a bodyguard;

(d)  patrolling beaches and swimming pools to prevent accidents
     and to rescue bathers from drowning;

(e)  patrolling natural reserves, game parks, forest areas and
     enclosures to prevent theft and killing of game;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Bodyguard
  Game-warden
  Life-guard
  Patrolman, security
  Patrolwoman, security
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Doorkeeper - 91 52
  Guard, museum - 9152
  Watchman - 9152
  Watchwoman - 9152

7435  TEXTILE, LEATHER AND RELATED PATTERN-MAKERS AND CUTTERS
 

     Textile, leather and related pattern-makers and cutters make
patterns and  mark and cut textile, leather and other materials
in the manufacture of  garments, gloves and miscellaneous
products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  drawing and cutting out patterns for making suits, dresses,
     shirts, blouses, gloves, hats and caps and other garments;

(b)  making outlines of patterns on cloth, light leathers or
     other materials to guide cutting;

(c)  cutting material according to pattern outline for making up
     garments, gloves and related items;

(d)  performing pattern-making, marking and cutting tasks in the
     manufacture of other products such as soft furnishings,
     canvas goods and umbrellas;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cutter, garment
 Cutter, glove
  Pattern-maker, fur
  Pattern-maker, garment
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, pattern-making/ textiles - 8269

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

7435  TEXTILE, LEATHER AND RELATED PATTERN-MAKERS AND CUTTERS
 

     Textile, leather and related pattern-makers and cutters make
patterns and  mark and cut textile, leather and other materials
in the manufacture of  garments, gloves and miscellaneous
products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  drawing and cutting out patterns for making suits, dresses,
     shirts, blouses, gloves, hats and caps and other garments;

(b)  making outlines of patterns on cloth, light leathers or
     other materials to guide cutting;

(c)  cutting material according to pattern outline for making up
     garments, gloves and related items;

(d)  performing pattern-making, marking and cutting tasks in the
     manufacture of other products such as soft furnishings,
     canvas goods and umbrellas;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cutter, garment
 Cutter, glove
  Pattern-maker, fur
  Pattern-maker, garment
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, pattern-making/ textiles - 8269

7222  TOOL-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Tool-makers and related workers make and repair tools,
sports guns,  locks, dies, patterns and other metal articles, as
well as make engines or  machinery components, and parts thereof,
using hand and machine tools to work  metal to fine tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, maintaining and repairing dies, jigs, gauges and
     fixtures, using hand tools and various kinds of machine
     tools;

(b)  making engines or machinery components, and parts thereof;

(c)  fitting and assembling parts to make and repair jigs,
     fixtures and gauges;

(d)  repairing and modifying sports guns and other small arms;

(e)  making, fitting, assembling, repairing and installing lock
     parts and locks;

(f)  making and repairing metal patterns for preparation of
     foundry moulds;

(g)  laying out lines and reference points on metal stock to
     guide other workers who cut, turn, mill, grind or otherwise
     shape metal;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Gunsmith
  Locksmith
  Toolmaker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator tool production - 8211

7435  TEXTILE, LEATHER AND RELATED PATTERN-MAKERS AND CUTTERS
 

     Textile, leather and related pattern-makers and cutters make
patterns and  mark and cut textile, leather and other materials
in the manufacture of  garments, gloves and miscellaneous
products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  drawing and cutting out patterns for making suits, dresses,
     shirts, blouses, gloves, hats and caps and other garments;

(b)  making outlines of patterns on cloth, light leathers or
     other materials to guide cutting;

(c)  cutting material according to pattern outline for making up
     garments, gloves and related items;

(d)  performing pattern-making, marking and cutting tasks in the
     manufacture of other products such as soft furnishings,
     canvas goods and umbrellas;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cutter, garment
 Cutter, glove
  Pattern-maker, fur
  Pattern-maker, garment
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, pattern-making/ textiles - 8269

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

7122  BRICKLAYERS AND STONEMASONS
 

     Bricklayers and stonemasons erect and repair foundations,
walls and  structures of brick, stone and similar materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  laying stone, brick, hollow tile and similar building blocks
     to construct or repair walls, partitions, fireplaces and
     other structures such as smokestacks, furnaces, converters,
     kilns and ovens, piers and abutments;

(b)  laying walks, curbs and pavements of stone;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Bricklayer, construction
  Stonemason, construction

4214  PAWNBROKERS AND MONEYLENDERS
 
     Pawnbrokers and money-lenders lend money against articles
deposited as  pledges, or against property or other security.
     Tasks include -

(a)  evaluating articles offered as pledges, calculating
     interest, and lending money;
(b)  returning articles when the loan is paid or, in the event
     of non-payment, selling pledged articles;
(c)  lending money as personal loans against success of future
     harvest and other similar undertakings;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Money-lender
  Pawnbroker

1120  SENIOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS 

      Senior government officials advise governments on policy
matters, oversee the interpretation and implementation of
government policies and legislation  by government departments
and agencies, represent their country abroad and act  on its
behalf, or carry out similar tasks in intergovernmental
organisations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   advising national, state, regional or local governments on
      policy matters;

(b)   advising on the preparation of government budgets, laws and
      regulations, including amendments;

(c)   overseeing the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies and legislation by government
      departments and agencies;

(d)   representing their country abroad;
         
(e)   performing similar tasks in intergovernmental
      organisations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Administrator, government
Administrator, intergovernmental organisation
Ambassador
Consul-general
Secretary, government/non legislative

2221  MEDICAL DOCTORS 
     Medical doctors conduct research, improve or develop
concepts, theories  and operational methods, and apply preventive
or curative measures.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research into human disorders and illnesses and
      preventive or curative methods;

(b)   conducting medical examinations and making diagnoses;

(c)   prescribing and giving treatment for diagnosed illnesses,
      disorders or injuries;

(d)   giving specialised medical or surgical treatment for
      particular types of illnesses, disorders or injuries;

(e)   giving advice on and applying preventive medicine methods
      and treatments;

(f)   participating in the development and implementation of
      public health laws and regulations for safeguarding and
      promoting the health of a community;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Doctor, medical
  Ophthalmologist
  Physician
  Psychiatrist
  Surgeon

9112  STREET VENDORS, NON-FOOD PRODUCTS
 

     Street vendors, non-food products sell various goods in
streets and  public places such as stations, cinemas or theatres.

     Tasks include -

(a)  buying or making various items for sale

(b)  loading and unloading push-cart, bicycle, truck or other
     vehicle, to transport goods to the streets or public places
     such as stations or cinemas;

(c)  displaying goods ;

(d)  approaching customer and selling newspapers or similar
     goods;

(e)  receiving payment on the spot;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Hawker
  Pedlar
  Vendor, theatre programme
  Vendor, street/non-food products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Salesperson, market - 5230
  Salesperson, street stall - 5230
  Vendor, street/food - 9111

2222  DENTISTS 
     Dentists conduct research, improve or develop concepts,
theories and  operational methods, and apply medical knowledge
in the field of dentistry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research into dental and related disorders and
      illnesses and preventive or curative methods;

(b)   making diagnoses, advising on and giving necessary dental
      treatment;

(c)   giving surgical, medical and other forms of treatment for
      particular types of dental and oral diseases and disorders;

(d)   participating in public action to maintain or improve
      standards of oral health and dental care:

(e)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(f)   performing related tasks,

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Dentist
  Dentist, pedodontistry
  Surgeon, oral/dentistry

2442  SOCIOLOGISTS, ANTHROPOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS
 
     Sociologists, anthropologists and related professionals
investigate and  describe the social structure of societies, the
origin and evolution of  humanity, and the interdependence
between environmental conditions and human  activities, and make
the knowledge obtained available as a basis for policy 
decisions.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research on the origin, development, structure,
      social patterns, organisations and inter-relationships of
      human society;

(b)   tracing the origin and evolution of humanity through the
      study of changing characteristics and cultural and social
      institutions;

(c)   tracing the development of humanity through the material
      remains of its past, such as dwellings, temples, tools,
      pottery, coins, weapons, or sculpture;

(d)   studying physical and climatic aspects of areas and
      'regions, and correlating these findings with the economic,
      social and cultural activities;

(e)   advising on the practical application of these findings in
      the formulation of economic and social policies for
      population groups and regions, and for the development of
      markets;

(f)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Anthropologist
  Archaeologist
  Ethnologist
  Geographer
  Sociologist

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

2222  DENTISTS 
     Dentists conduct research, improve or develop concepts,
theories and  operational methods, and apply medical knowledge
in the field of dentistry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research into dental and related disorders and
      illnesses and preventive or curative methods;

(b)   making diagnoses, advising on and giving necessary dental
      treatment;

(c)   giving surgical, medical and other forms of treatment for
      particular types of dental and oral diseases and disorders;

(d)   participating in public action to maintain or improve
      standards of oral health and dental care:

(e)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(f)   performing related tasks,

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Dentist
  Dentist, pedodontistry
  Surgeon, oral/dentistry

2114  GEOLOGISTS AND GEOPHYSICISTS 
     Geologists and geophysicists conduct research, improve or
develop  concepts, theories and operational methods, or apply
scientific knowledge  relating to geology and geophysics in such
fields as oil, gas and mineral  exploitation, water conservation,
civil engineering, telecommunications and  navigation.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods related to geology and
      geophysics;

(b)   studying composition and structure of the earth's crust,
      examining rocks, minerals, fossil remains, etc., to
      determine processes affecting the development of the earth,
      trace evolution of past life and establish nature and
      chronology of geological formations;

(c)   interpreting research data and preparing geological
      reports, maps, charts and diagrams;

(d)   applying results of research to assess development
      potential of mineral, gas and oil deposits and underground
      water resources;

(e)   applying geological knowledge to problems encountered in
      civil engineering projects such as the construction of
      dams, bridges, tunnels and large buildings;

(f)   investigating and measuring seismic, gravitational,
      electrical, thermal and magnetic forces affecting the
      earth;

(g)   investigating and measuring optical and acoustic phenomena
      in the atmosphere;

(h)   estimating weight, size and mass of the earth and
      composition and structure of its interior, and studying the
      nature and activity of volcanoes, glaciers and earthquakes;

(i)   charting the earth's magnetic field and applying this and
      other collected data for purposes of broadcasting and
      navigation;

(j)   studying and measuring physical properties of seas and the
      atmosphere and their inter-relationship, such as the
      exchange of thermal energy;

(k)   locating and determining the nature and extent of oil, gas
      and mineral deposits and of ground-water resources, using
      seismological, gravimetric, magnetic, electrical or
      radiometric methods;

(l)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(m)   performing related tasks;

(n)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Geologist
  Geophysicist

7313  JEWELLERY AND PRECIOUS-METAL WORKERS
 

     Jewellery and precious-metal workers make and repair
jewellery and  precious metalware, cut and set gems and engrave
designs on jewellery and  precious metal articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  casting jewellery and other non-ferrous metal articles by
     hand;

(b)  making complete jewellery articles such as rings, brooches
     and bracelets;

(c)  cutting and polishing gems and setting them in jewellery
     articles;

(d)  making and repairing precious metalware;

(e)  rolling and beating precious metals; engraving letters and
     designs on jewellery and precious metalware;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, jewellery
  Goldsmith
  Jeweller
  Setter, gem
  Silversmith

2224  PHARMACISTS 
     Pharmacists apply pharmaceutical concepts and theories by
preparing and  dispensing or selling medicaments and drugs.

     
Tasks include -

(a)   preparing and directing the preparation of medicaments
      according to prescriptions of medical, dental and
      veterinary practitioners, or established formulae;

(b)   checking prescriptions to ensure that recommended dosages
      are not exceeded, and that instructions are understood by
      patient - or person administering the medicament - and
      advising on possible drug incompatibility;

(c)   dispensing medicaments and drugs in hospitals or selling
      them in pharmacies;

(d)   maintaining records, especially of narcotics, poisons and
      habit-forming drugs issued;

(e)   testing drugs to determine identity, purity and strength;

(f)   participating in the development of controls and
      regulations;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Pharmacist

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Chemist, pharmaceutical - 2113

2113  CHEMISTS 
     Chemists conduct research, improve or develop concepts,
theories and  operational methods, or apply scientific knowledge
relating to chemistry,  mainly to test, develop and improve
materials, and industrial products and  processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods related to chemistry;

(b)   conducting experiments, tests and analyses to investigate
      chemical composition and energy and chemical changes in
      various natural, artificial or synthetic substances,
      materials and products-.

(c)   evaluating results of investigations and experiments and
      deriving conclusions-.

(d)   developing or improving pharmaceutical and other industrial
      materials, products and processes;

(e)   developing quality control procedures for manufacturers or
      users;

(f)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Chemist
  Chemist, pharmaceutical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Biochemist - 2212
  Pharmacist - 2224
  Pharmacologist - 2212

2224  PHARMACISTS 
     Pharmacists apply pharmaceutical concepts and theories by
preparing and  dispensing or selling medicaments and drugs.

     
Tasks include -

(a)   preparing and directing the preparation of medicaments
      according to prescriptions of medical, dental and
      veterinary practitioners, or established formulae;

(b)   checking prescriptions to ensure that recommended dosages
      are not exceeded, and that instructions are understood by
      patient - or person administering the medicament - and
      advising on possible drug incompatibility;

(c)   dispensing medicaments and drugs in hospitals or selling
      them in pharmacies;

(d)   maintaining records, especially of narcotics, poisons and
      habit-forming drugs issued;

(e)   testing drugs to determine identity, purity and strength;

(f)   participating in the development of controls and
      regulations;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Pharmacist

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Chemist, pharmaceutical - 2113

2212  PHARMACOLOGISTS, PATHOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Pharmacologists, pathologists and related professionals
conduct research,  improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and apply  scientific knowledge relating to
anatomy, biochemistry, biophysics,  physiology, pathology, or
pharmacology, in such fields as medicine,  agriculture or
industry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   studying and conducting experiments 

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the chemical
      composition and processes of living organisms;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the life
      processes and functions of human, animal or plant organs,
      tissues, cells, glands and systems under normal and
      abnormal or exceptional conditions;

(e)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the nature,
      causes and development of human, animal or plant diseases
      and disorders;

(f)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the effects
      of drugs and other substances on the tissues, organs and
      physiological processes of human beings and animals, and
      improving existing or developing new drugs;

(g)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Anatomist
  Biochemist
  Biophysicist
  Pathologist
  Pharmacologist
  Physiologist

2444  PHILOLOGISTS, TRANSLATORS AND INTERPRETERS 
     Philologists, translators and interpreters study the origin,
development  and structure of languages, and translate or
interpret from one language into  another.

     Tasks include -

(a)   studying relationships between ancient parent languages and
      modern language groups, tracing the origin and evolution
of
      words, grammar and language forms, and presenting findings;

(b)   advising on or preparing language classification systems,
      grammars, dictionaries and similar materials;

(c)   translating from one language into another and ensuring
      that the correct meaning of the original is retained, that
      legal, technical or scientific works are correctly
      rendered, and that the phraseology and terminology of the
      spirit and style of literary works are conveyed as far as
      possible;

(d)   develop methods for the use of computers and other
      instruments to improve productivity and quality of
      translations;

(e)   interpreting from one language into another, in particular
      at conferences, meetings and similar occasions, and
      ensuring that the correct meaning and, as far as possible,
      the spirit of the original are transmitted;

(f)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Interpreter
  Lexicographer
   Philologist
  Translator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Editor - 2451

2443  PHILOSOPHERS, HISTORIANS AND POLITICAL SCIENTISTS 
     Philosophers, historians and political scientists work,
mostly by  reasoning, in the field of epistemology, metaphysics
or ethics.  They conduct  research and describe past events and
activities, including the development of  social and economic
structures, or cultural and political institutions and 
movements, and make the knowledge obtained available as a basis
for political,  diplomatic and related policies.

     Tasks include -

(a)   researching, mostly by reasoning, into the general causes,
      principles and meanings of the world, human actions,
      experience and existence, and interpreting and developing
      philosophical concepts and theories;

(b)   consulting and comparing primary sources, such as original
      or contemporary records of past events, and secondary
      sources such as archaeological or anthropological findings;

(c)   extracting relevant material, checking its authenticity,
      and researching into and describing the history of a
      particular period, country or region, or a particular facet
      - for example economic, social or political - of its
      history;

(d)   conducting research in such fields as political philosophy,
      or past and present theory and practice of political
      systems, institutions or behaviour;

(e)   observing contemporary political institutions and
      collecting data on them from various sources, including
      interviews with government and political party officials
      and other relevant persons;

(f)   presenting findings and conclusions for publication or use
      by government, political parties or other organisations and
      interested persons;

(g)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Historian
  Philosopher
  Political scientist

2444  PHILOLOGISTS, TRANSLATORS AND INTERPRETERS 
     Philologists, translators and interpreters study the origin,
development  and structure of languages, and translate or
interpret from one language into  another.

     Tasks include -

(a)   studying relationships between ancient parent languages and
      modern language groups, tracing the origin and evolution
of
      words, grammar and language forms, and presenting findings;

(b)   advising on or preparing language classification systems,
      grammars, dictionaries and similar materials;

(c)   translating from one language into another and ensuring
      that the correct meaning of the original is retained, that
      legal, technical or scientific works are correctly
      rendered, and that the phraseology and terminology of the
      spirit and style of literary works are conveyed as far as
      possible;

(d)   develop methods for the use of computers and other
      instruments to improve productivity and quality of
      translations;

(e)   interpreting from one language into another, in particular
      at conferences, meetings and similar occasions, and
      ensuring that the correct meaning and, as far as possible,
      the spirit of the original are transmitted;

(f)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Interpreter
  Lexicographer
   Philologist
  Translator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Editor - 2451

7341  COMPOSITORS, TYPESETTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Compositors, typesetters and related workers set and arrange
printing  type by hand or machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting type by hand and printing copies with simple
     machines;

(b)  operating linotype, monotype and typecasting machines;

(c)  arranging set-up of type and spacing material and
     illustration blocks to make pages;

(d)  arranging pages in sequence for printing;

(e)  operating electronic key-boarding machines which enable
     characters to be converted into film, sensitised tape or
     paper for subsequent photo plate-making;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Compositor, printing
  Printer
  Typesetter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Press-operator, printing/cylinder 8251

7343  PRINTING ENGRAVERS AND ETCHERS
 

     Printing engravers and etchers engrave lithographic stones
and printing  plates, rollers, dies and blocks by various
processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting designs through film applied to surface of
     lithographic stones;

(b)  engraving steel and copper plates, rollers, dies or wood,
     rubber and linoleum blocks by hand;

(c)  engraving metal plates and rollers by machine;

(d)  transferring designs from lithographic stone to metal
     plates;

(e)  performing all or several tasks in preparing printing plates
     by photogravure process;

(f)  etching metal plates or rollers with acid and retouching;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Engraver, printing/lithographic stone
  Engraver, printing/metal plate
  Etcher, printing/metal plate
  Photo-engraver
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Designer, graphic - 3471

2148 CARTOGRAPHERS AND SURVEYORS 
     Cartographers and surveyors apply surveying methods and
techniques to  determine the exact position of natural and
constructed features and  boundaries of land, seas, underground
areas and celestial bodies, and prepare  or revise digital,
graphic and pictorial representations.

     Tasks include:

(a)   surveying, measuring and describing land surfaces for
      various purposes, including mapmaking, construction work
or
      establishment of property boundaries;


(b)   surveying mines, delineating underground surfaces, noting
      exact position of various features and making charts and
      maps with a view to controlling direction and extent of
      mining;

(c)   surveying sea, river and lake beds, delineating underwater
      surfaces, noting exact position of various features and
      making charts and maps to be used in particular in
      determining navigable waters and channels and in planning
      construction of marine structures;

(d)   planning and conducting aerial photographic surveys;

(e)   analysing aerial and other photographs, remote sensing and
      surveying data to prepare and revise topographic maps and
      charts, utility maps and other thematic maps;

(f)   studying and advising on technical, aesthetic and economic
      aspects of map production;

(g)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Cartographer
  Photogrammetrist
  Surveyor, aerial
  Surveyor, hydrographic
  Surveyor, land
  Surveyor, mining

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Surveyor, marine: 3115
  Surveyor, quantity: 2149

3131  PHOTOGRAPHERS AND IMAGE AND SOUND RECORDING EQUIPMENT
OPERATORS 
     Photographers and image and sound recording equipment
operators take  photographs, control motion picture and video
cameras and other equipment to  record and edit images and sound.

 
    Tasks include -

(a)   taking photographs for advertising, or other commercial,
      industrial or scientific purposes and to illustrate stories
      and articles in newspapers, magazines and other
      publications;

(b)   taking portrait photographs of persons and groups of
      persons;

(c)   setting and operating motion picture, video, microscopic
      and other specialised cameras, including those for aerial
      photography, to record images;

(d)   controlling equipment to record sound for motion pictures,
      videotapes, gramophone records, audio tapes, digital discs,
      direct broadcasting or other purposes.,

(e)   controlling equipment to edit and mix image and sound
      recordings to ensure satisfactory quality and to create
      special image and sound effects;

(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of image and
      sound recording and editing in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, camera/motion picture
  Operator, recording equipment/sound
  Operator, studio equipment/television
  Photographer

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Mechanic, electronics - 7243
  Photographer, photogravure - 7343
  Photolithographer - 7343
  Repairer, photographic equipment 7311

7343  PRINTING ENGRAVERS AND ETCHERS
 

     Printing engravers and etchers engrave lithographic stones
and printing  plates, rollers, dies and blocks by various
processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting designs through film applied to surface of
     lithographic stones;

(b)  engraving steel and copper plates, rollers, dies or wood,
     rubber and linoleum blocks by hand;

(c)  engraving metal plates and rollers by machine;

(d)  transferring designs from lithographic stone to metal
     plates;

(e)  performing all or several tasks in preparing printing plates
     by photogravure process;

(f)  etching metal plates or rollers with acid and retouching;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Engraver, printing/lithographic stone
  Engraver, printing/metal plate
  Etcher, printing/metal plate
  Photo-engraver
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Designer, graphic - 3471

3131  PHOTOGRAPHERS AND IMAGE AND SOUND RECORDING EQUIPMENT
OPERATORS 
     Photographers and image and sound recording equipment
operators take  photographs, control motion picture and video
cameras and other equipment to  record and edit images and sound.

 
    Tasks include -

(a)   taking photographs for advertising, or other commercial,
      industrial or scientific purposes and to illustrate stories
      and articles in newspapers, magazines and other
      publications;

(b)   taking portrait photographs of persons and groups of
      persons;

(c)   setting and operating motion picture, video, microscopic
      and other specialised cameras, including those for aerial
      photography, to record images;

(d)   controlling equipment to record sound for motion pictures,
      videotapes, gramophone records, audio tapes, digital discs,
      direct broadcasting or other purposes.,

(e)   controlling equipment to edit and mix image and sound
      recordings to ensure satisfactory quality and to create
      special image and sound effects;

(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of image and
      sound recording and editing in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, camera/motion picture
  Operator, recording equipment/sound
  Operator, studio equipment/television
  Photographer

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Mechanic, electronics - 7243
  Photographer, photogravure - 7343
  Photolithographer - 7343
  Repairer, photographic equipment 7311

7343  PRINTING ENGRAVERS AND ETCHERS
 

     Printing engravers and etchers engrave lithographic stones
and printing  plates, rollers, dies and blocks by various
processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting designs through film applied to surface of
     lithographic stones;

(b)  engraving steel and copper plates, rollers, dies or wood,
     rubber and linoleum blocks by hand;

(c)  engraving metal plates and rollers by machine;

(d)  transferring designs from lithographic stone to metal
     plates;

(e)  performing all or several tasks in preparing printing plates
     by photogravure process;

(f)  etching metal plates or rollers with acid and retouching;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Engraver, printing/lithographic stone
  Engraver, printing/metal plate
  Etcher, printing/metal plate
  Photo-engraver
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Designer, graphic - 3471

2221  MEDICAL DOCTORS 
     Medical doctors conduct research, improve or develop
concepts, theories  and operational methods, and apply preventive
or curative measures.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research into human disorders and illnesses and
      preventive or curative methods;

(b)   conducting medical examinations and making diagnoses;

(c)   prescribing and giving treatment for diagnosed illnesses,
      disorders or injuries;

(d)   giving specialised medical or surgical treatment for
      particular types of illnesses, disorders or injuries;

(e)   giving advice on and applying preventive medicine methods
      and treatments;

(f)   participating in the development and implementation of
      public health laws and regulations for safeguarding and
      promoting the health of a community;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Doctor, medical
  Ophthalmologist
  Physician
  Psychiatrist
  Surgeon

2111  PHYSICISTS AND ASTRONOMERS 
     Physicists and astronomers conduct research, improve or
develop concepts,  theories and operational methods, or apply
scientific knowledge relating to  physics and astronomy in
industrial, medical, military or other fields.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research, and improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods related to physics and
      astronomy-.

(b)   conducting experiments, tests and analyses in fields such
      as mechanics, thermodynamics, optics, sonics, electricity,
      magnetism, electronics and nuclear physics, or astronomy;

(c)   conducting experiments, tests and analyses of the structure
      and properties of matter in solid state and its behaviour
      under temperature, pressure, stress and other conditions;

(d)   evaluating results of investigations and experiments and
      expressing conclusions, mainly using mathematical
      techniques and models;

(e)   developing or improving industrial, medical, military and
      other practical applications of the principles and
      techniques of physics or astronomy'.

(f)   observing, analysing and interpreting celestial phenomena
      and developing methods and techniques to be used in fields
      such as navigation or space exploration;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Astronomer

  Physicist

2212  PHARMACOLOGISTS, PATHOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Pharmacologists, pathologists and related professionals
conduct research,  improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and apply  scientific knowledge relating to
anatomy, biochemistry, biophysics,  physiology, pathology, or
pharmacology, in such fields as medicine,  agriculture or
industry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   studying and conducting experiments 

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the chemical
      composition and processes of living organisms;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the life
      processes and functions of human, animal or plant organs,
      tissues, cells, glands and systems under normal and
      abnormal or exceptional conditions;

(e)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the nature,
      causes and development of human, animal or plant diseases
      and disorders;

(f)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the effects
      of drugs and other substances on the tissues, organs and
      physiological processes of human beings and animals, and
      improving existing or developing new drugs;

(g)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Anatomist
  Biochemist
  Biophysicist
  Pathologist
  Pharmacologist
  Physiologist

3226  PHYSIOTHERAPISTS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Physiotherapists and related associate professionals treat
disorders of  bones, muscles and parts of the circulatory or the
nervous system by  manipulative methods, and ultrasound, heating,
laser or similar techniques, or  apply physiotherapy and related
therapies as part of the treatment for the physically disabled,
mentally ill or unbalanced.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising communities and individuals on correct body
      postures, for work or otherwise, to avoid injuries and
      strain and to strengthen muscles;


(b)   conducting examinations to make diagnoses of disorders of
      bones, muscles and parts of the circulatory or the nervous
      system to determine proper treatment or refer to Medical
      doctors, if necessary;

(c)   treating disorders of bones, muscles and parts of the
      circulatory or the nervous system by manipulative methods,
      and the use of ultrasound, heating, laser or similar
      techniques;

(d)   massaging client or patient to improve circulation, soothe
      or stimulate nerves, facilitate elimination of waste
      matter, stretch contracted tendons and produce other
      therapeutic effects;

(e)   examining body deformities and disorders to determine and
      write specifications for artificial limbs or other
      appliances, helping to fit them and explaining their use;

(f)   applying physiotherapy and related techniques as part of
      the treatment of the mentally ill or unbalanced;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Chiropractor
  Physiotherapist
  Podiatrist

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Therapist, occupational - 3229

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

9211  FARM-HANDS AND LABOURERS
 

     Farm-hands and labourers help with farm work by performing
a variety of  simple farming tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging and shovelling to clear ditches or for other
     purposes;

(b)  loading, unloading various crops and other materials;

(c)  raking, pitching and stacking hay;

(d)  watering and weeding;

(e)  picking fruit, vegetables and various plants;

(f)  helping with planting, harvesting and general farmwork;

(g)  feeding, watering, and cleaning animals and keeping their
     quarters clean;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, farm
  Picker, fruit
Some related occupations classified else where:
  Shepherd - 6121
  Farm worker, skilled/field crops - 6111
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock - 6121

7431  FIBRE PREPARERS
 

     Fibre preparers prepare wool, cotton,flax, jute, hemp and
other natural  textile fibres for spinning and winding.

     Tasks include -

(a)  grading and classifying natural textile fibres;

(b)  washing wool fibres;

(c)  cleaning and fluffing textile fibres;

(d)  forming fibres into sliver, combing them, combining sliver
     into sliver laps or forming sliver into rove;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Comber, fibre/textiles
  Drawer, fibre/textiles
  Rover, fibre/textiles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator combing/textile fibres - 8261

9211  FARM-HANDS AND LABOURERS
 

     Farm-hands and labourers help with farm work by performing
a variety of  simple farming tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging and shovelling to clear ditches or for other
     purposes;

(b)  loading, unloading various crops and other materials;

(c)  raking, pitching and stacking hay;

(d)  watering and weeding;

(e)  picking fruit, vegetables and various plants;

(f)  helping with planting, harvesting and general farmwork;

(g)  feeding, watering, and cleaning animals and keeping their
     quarters clean;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, farm
  Picker, fruit
Some related occupations classified else where:
  Shepherd - 6121
  Farm worker, skilled/field crops - 6111
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock - 6121

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

7414  FRUIT, VEGETABLE AND RELATED PRESERVERS
 

     Fruit, vegetable and related preservers process or preserve
fruit, nuts  and related foods in various ways including cooking,
drying, salting, or juice  or oil extraction.

     Tasks include -

(a)  extracting juices from various fruits;

(b)  extracting oils from oil-bearing seeds, nuts or fruits;

(c)  cooking, salting or drying fruit, vegetables and related
     foods;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Expeller, oil
  Preserver, fruit
  Preserver, vegetable
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, canning/fruit - 8275
  Machine-operator, canning/vegetables - 8275

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

7441  PELT DRESSERS, TANNERS AND FELLMONGERS
 

     Pelt dressers, tanners and fellmongers prepare fur- and
wool-bearing  pelts for making garments and other products, and
make leather from hides and  skins.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sorting and grading pelts, hides and skins;

(b)  removing flesh and fat from pelts before curing;

(c)  removing flesh and hair from hides;

(d)  removing long, coarse hair from pelts and trimming
     underlying hair to even length;

(e)  operating machine to split hides edgeways;

(f)  treating hides to convert them into leather;

(g)  applying dyes to fur pelts;

(h)  dressing and applying dyes and stains to leather;

(i)  stretching and smoothing dressed pelts;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fellmonger
  Grader, pelt
  Tanner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, tanning - 8265

7414  FRUIT, VEGETABLE AND RELATED PRESERVERS
 

     Fruit, vegetable and related preservers process or preserve
fruit, nuts  and related foods in various ways including cooking,
drying, salting, or juice  or oil extraction.

     Tasks include -

(a)  extracting juices from various fruits;

(b)  extracting oils from oil-bearing seeds, nuts or fruits;

(c)  cooking, salting or drying fruit, vegetables and related
     foods;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Expeller, oil
  Preserver, fruit
  Preserver, vegetable
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, canning/fruit - 8275
  Machine-operator, canning/vegetables - 8275

7111  MINERS AND QUARRY WORKERS
 

     Miners and quarry workers extract solid minerals from
underground or  surface mines or quarries.

     Tasks include -

(a)  extracting coal, ores and other solid minerals from
     underground or surface mines;

(b)  extracting granite, limestone, slate, flint or other kinds
     of rocks from quarries;

(c)  setting and operating machines which cut channels or drill
     blasting holes into the open face of mines or quarries;

(d)  cutting, fitting and installing wood or steel props, pillars
     and arches to support walls and roof of underground
     workings;

(e)  collecting samples of coal or ore for laboratory analysis;

(f)  extracting chalk, clay, gravel or sand from open pits;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Miner
  Quarrier
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, drilling/mine - 8111
  Machine-operator, mining/continuous - 8111

3143  AIRCRAFT PILOTS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Aircraft pilots and related associate professionals control
the operation  of mechanical, electrical and electronic
equipment, in order to navigate  aircraft for transporting
passengers, mail and freight and perform related  preflight and
in-flight tasks.

  
   Tasks include -

(a)   flying and navigating aircraft in accordance with
      established control and operating procedures;

(b)   preparing and submitting flight plan or examining standard
      flight plan;

(c)   controlling the operation of mechanical, electrical and
      electronic equipment and ensuring that all instruments and
      controls work properly;

(d)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of flying
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Engineer, flight
  Navigator, flight
  Pilot, aircraft

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Instructor, flying - 3340

3340  OTHER TEACHING ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Other teaching associate professionals engage in other
teaching  activities than those connected with primary and
preprimary school level.   They may, for instance, teach how to
fly aircraft, or how to drive motor  vehicles, or railway and
other engines.     Tasks include -

(a)   explaining uses and operations of flying/driving controls;

(b)   accompanying pupils on training flights/drives and
      demonstrating relevant tasks;

(c)   explaining flying/driving regulations and laws;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Instructor, driving
  Instructor, flying

3143  AIRCRAFT PILOTS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Aircraft pilots and related associate professionals control
the operation  of mechanical, electrical and electronic
equipment, in order to navigate  aircraft for transporting
passengers, mail and freight and perform related  preflight and
in-flight tasks.

  
   Tasks include -

(a)   flying and navigating aircraft in accordance with
      established control and operating procedures;

(b)   preparing and submitting flight plan or examining standard
      flight plan;

(c)   controlling the operation of mechanical, electrical and
      electronic equipment and ensuring that all instruments and
      controls work properly;

(d)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of flying
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Engineer, flight
  Navigator, flight
  Pilot, aircraft

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Instructor, flying - 3340

3142  SHIPS' DECK OFFICERS AND PILOTS 
     Ships' deck officers and pilots command and navigate ships
and similar  vessels, and perform related functions on shore.

     Tasks include -

(a)   commanding and navigating ship or similar vessel at sea or
      on inland waterways;

(b)   controlling and participating in deck and bridge-watch
      activities;

(c)   navigating vessels into and out of ports and through
      channels, straits and other waters where special knowledge
      is required;

(d)   ensuring safe loading and unloading of cargo and observance
      of safety regulations and procedures by crew and
      passengers'.

(e)   performing technical supervision of maintenance and repair
      of ship to ensure compliance with specifications and
      regulations;

(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices relating to
      ship's operation and navigation in order to identify and
      solve problems arising in the course of their work;

(g)   ordering ship's stores and recruiting crew as required and
      maintaining record of operations;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Captain ship/sea
  Pilot, ship
  Skipper, yacht

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Sailor - 8340

3143  AIRCRAFT PILOTS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Aircraft pilots and related associate professionals control
the operation  of mechanical, electrical and electronic
equipment, in order to navigate  aircraft for transporting
passengers, mail and freight and perform related  preflight and
in-flight tasks.

  
   Tasks include -

(a)   flying and navigating aircraft in accordance with
      established control and operating procedures;

(b)   preparing and submitting flight plan or examining standard
      flight plan;

(c)   controlling the operation of mechanical, electrical and
      electronic equipment and ensuring that all instruments and
      controls work properly;

(d)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of flying
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Engineer, flight
  Navigator, flight
  Pilot, aircraft

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Instructor, flying - 3340

3142  SHIPS' DECK OFFICERS AND PILOTS 
     Ships' deck officers and pilots command and navigate ships
and similar  vessels, and perform related functions on shore.

     Tasks include -

(a)   commanding and navigating ship or similar vessel at sea or
      on inland waterways;

(b)   controlling and participating in deck and bridge-watch
      activities;

(c)   navigating vessels into and out of ports and through
      channels, straits and other waters where special knowledge
      is required;

(d)   ensuring safe loading and unloading of cargo and observance
      of safety regulations and procedures by crew and
      passengers'.

(e)   performing technical supervision of maintenance and repair
      of ship to ensure compliance with specifications and
      regulations;

(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices relating to
      ship's operation and navigation in order to identify and
      solve problems arising in the course of their work;

(g)   ordering ship's stores and recruiting crew as required and
      maintaining record of operations;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Captain ship/sea
  Pilot, ship
  Skipper, yacht

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Sailor - 8340

3143  AIRCRAFT PILOTS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Aircraft pilots and related associate professionals control
the operation  of mechanical, electrical and electronic
equipment, in order to navigate  aircraft for transporting
passengers, mail and freight and perform related  preflight and
in-flight tasks.

  
   Tasks include -

(a)   flying and navigating aircraft in accordance with
      established control and operating procedures;

(b)   preparing and submitting flight plan or examining standard
      flight plan;

(c)   controlling the operation of mechanical, electrical and
      electronic equipment and ensuring that all instruments and
      controls work properly;

(d)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of flying
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Engineer, flight
  Navigator, flight
  Pilot, aircraft

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Instructor, flying - 3340

7136  PLUMBERS AND PIPE FITTERS
 

     Plumbers and pipe fitters assemble, fit, install and repair
plumbing  fixtures, or pipes and pipeline systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting, threading, bending, jointing, assembling,
     installing, maintaining and repairing pipes, fittings and
     fixtures of drainage, heating, water supply and sewerage
     systems;

(b)  assembling, installing, maintaining and repairing pipeline
     systems in ships, aircraft, buildings, industrial plant,
     etc.;

(c)  laying clay, concrete or cast-iron pipes in ditches to form
     sewers, drains or water mains, or for other purposes;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, pipe
  Layer, pipe
  Plumber
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, pipe installation 8290

2211  BIOLOGISTS, BOTANISTS, ZOOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Biologists, botanists, zoologists and related professionals
conduct  research, improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and  apply scientific knowledge relating to
biology, microbiology, bacteriology,  cytology, genetics,
zoology, botany and ecology, especially in the fields of 
medicine and agriculture.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   conducting field and laboratory experiments concerning all
      forms of life by identifying and classifying human, animal,
      insect or plant specimens, and studying their origin,
      development, chemical and physical form, structure,
      composition, and life and reproductive processes;

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure, development and characteristics of micro-
      organisms such as bacteria or viruses;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the factors
      involved in the origin, development and transmission of
      hereditary characteristics in human beings, animals or
      plants;

(e)   studying all forms of plant life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(f)   studying all forms of animal life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(g)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure and functions of living cells, and the influence
      of physical and chemical factors upon normal and abnormal
      cells;

(h)   studying inter-relationships of animal and plant life and
      the environmental factors involved, and giving professional
      advice to related disciplines;

(i)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bacteriologist
  Biologist
  Botanist
  Ecologist
  Microbiologist
  Zoologist

7123  CONCRETE PLACERS, CONCRETE FINISHERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Concrete placers, concrete finishers and related workers
erect reinforced  concrete frameworks and structures, make forms
for moulding concrete,  reinforce concrete surfaces, cement
openings in walls or casings for wells,  finish and repair cement
surfaces and carry out terrazzo work.
     
     Tasks include -

(a)  constructing and repairing reinforced concrete floors,
     walls, tanks, silos and other concrete structures;

(b)  making shuttering or assembling prefabricated forms for
     moulding concrete;

(c)  cementing openings in walls or casings for wells;

(d)  finishing and smoothing surfaces of concrete structures;

(e)  applying a durable, smooth surfacing composed of cement,
     sand pigment and marble particles to floors, known as a
     terrazzo finish;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Finisher, cement
  Placer, concrete
  Terrazzo worker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, finishing/concrete 8212
  Operator, road surface laying machinery - 8332

7113  STONE SPLITTERS, CUTTERS AND CARVERS
 



     Stone splitters, cutters and carvers break quarried stone
slabs or  blocks, or by using hand or hand-powered tools cut,
shape and finish stone for  building, ornamental, monumental and
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving wedges into quarried stone to break it into slabs
     or blocks;

(b)  selecting and grading slabs and blocks of granite, marble,
     and other stone;

(c)  cutting, shaping and finishing building and monumental stone
     such as granite or marble by using hand or hand-powered
     tools;

(d)  making patterns and marking shapes on stone for subsequent
     sawing, planing, drilling and other dressing and cutting
     operations;

(e)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     blocks used for monuments or memorials;

(f)  setting stone in the erection of monuments and memorials;

(g)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     used for decorative facings on buildings-

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carver, stone
  Cutter, stone
  Mason, monument
  Splitter, stone
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, carving/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, cutting/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, splitting/stone 8112
  Sculptor - 2452
  Stonemason, construction - 7122

2141  ARCHITECTS, TOWN AND TRAFFIC PLANNERS 
     Architects, town and traffic planners conduct research and
advise on and  design residential, commercial and industrial
buildings, layout of towns,  landscapes and traffic systems, and
plan and monitor their construction,  maintenance and
rehabilitation.

     Tasks include:

(a)   developing new or improved architectural theories and
      methods-

(b)   inspecting sites, consulting with clients and making
      recommendations regarding style and other aspects of
      construction;

(c)   designing buildings, preparing detailed drawings and plans
      for their construction and rehabilitation and making
      necessary contacts to ensure feasibility of projects
      regarding style, cost, timing, compliance with regulations,
      etc.;

(d)   identifying and finding best solutions for problems
      regarding function and quality of interior environments of
      buildings and making necessary designs, drawings and plans;

(e)   monitoring construction to ensure compliance with
      specifications;

(f)   planning layout and coordinating development of urban
      areas;

(g)   planning and designing the development of land areas for
      parks, schools, institutions, airports, roadways and
      related projects, and for commercial, industrial and
      residential sites;

(h)   planning and advising on routing and control of road and
      other traffic for efficiency and safety;

(i)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks; supervising other workers.

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Architect, building
  Architect, interior
  Architect, landscape
  Planner, traffic
  Planner, urban

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Decorator, interior: 3471
  Designer, decoration: 3471

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6141  FORESTRY WORKERS AND LOGGERS
 
     Forestry workers and loggers carry out the necessary
operations to  cultivate, conserve and exploit forests, for sale
or delivery of forestry  products on a regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a) establishing and caring for forest stands;

(b)  locating trees to be felled and estimating volume of timber;

(c)  trimming, topping and felling trees and sawing them into
     logs;

(d)  shaping rough wooden products from logs at felling site;

(e)  stacking logs, loading them in chutes or floating them down
     rivers;

(f)  keeping watch to detect forest fires and participating in
     firefighting operations;

(g)  delivering or marketing forestry products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Climber, logging
  Cruiser, timber
  Feller-bucker, tree
  Forestry worker, skilled
  Logger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/forestry
        - 1221
  General manager, forestry - 1311
  Labourer, forestry - 9212
  Managing director, enterprise/forestry - 1210
  Operator, forestry machinery - 8331

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6111  FIELD CROP AND VEGETABLE GROWERS
 
     Field crop and vegetable growers plan and carry out the
necessary  operations to grow and harvest various types of field
crops such as wheat and  other cereals, rice, beetroot, sugar-
cane, ground-nuts, tobacco, reeds or  other field crops and
potatoes, cabbages or other field vegetables, for sale or 
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing
organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown;

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies,

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting, cultivating and harvesting crops and field
     vegetables;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks.

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/field crops
  Farmer, cereal
  Farmer, cotton
  Farmer, field crop
  Farmer, rice
  Farmer, sugar-cane
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311 Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

7133  PLASTERERS
 

     Plasterers install and repair laths and apply plaster to
walls and  ceilings of buildings.

     Tasks include -

(a)  installing and repairing laths and applying one or more
     coats of plaster to interior walls and ceilings of buildings
     to produce finished surface;

(b)  moulding and installing ornamental plaster panels and
     casting and trimming ornamental plaster cornices;

(c)  applying protective and decorative covering of cement,
     plaster and similar materials to exterior building surfaces;

(d)  making and installing decorative plaster fixtures of fibrous
     plaster;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Plasterer
  Plasterer, ornamental
  Plasterer, stucco

7214  STRUCTURAL-METAL PREPARERS AND ERECTORS
 

     Structural-metal preparers and erectors shape, assemble and
erect heavy  metal girders and plates to form structures and
frameworks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  marking metal members as a guide when drilling, cutting, and
     shaping them for use in buildings, ships and other
     structures;

(b)  drilling, cutting and shaping structural steel in a
     workshop;

(c)  erecting steel members for buildings, bridges and other
     constructions;

(d)  assembling and erecting the framework and other metal parts
     of ships' structures;

(e)  shaping and fitting structural-steel plates of ships under
     construction or repair;

(f)  riveting structural-metal members by hand, machine or
     pneumatic riveter;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Erector, structural metal
  Preparer, structural metal
  Riveter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, rivet production 8211

3475  ATHLETES, SPORTSPERSONS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Athletes, sportspersons and related associate professionals
participate  in competitive sporting events, conduct sports
training, compile rules  concerning sporting events, and control
the progress of these events.     Tasks include -

(a)   participating in competitive sporting events;

(b)   conducting sports training to develop ability in and
      knowledge of the sport;

(c)   compiling rules concerning the conduct of sporting
      competitions, and controlling the progress of these events;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Athlete
  Boxer
  Coach, sports
  Official, sports
  Wrestler

2451  AUTHORS, JOURNALISTS AND OTHER WRITERS 
     Authors, journalists and other writers write literary works
for  publication or presentation in dramatic form, appraise
merits of artistic  productions, or literary and other works of
art, or write and edit news,  stories and commentaries.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing literary works for publication or
      presentation in dramatic form;

(b)   writing scripts and continuities and preparing programmes
      for stage, film, radio and television productions;

(c)   appraising and writing about merits of literary, musical
      and other works of art, and about artistic performances;

(d)   collecting, reporting and commenting on news and current
      affairs for publication in newspapers and periodicals, or
      for broadcasting by radio or television;

(e)   interviewing politicians and other public figures at press
      conferences and on other occasions, including individual
      interviews recorded for radio or television;

(f)   writing editorials and selecting, revising, arranging and
      editing submitted articles and other material for
      publication in newspapers and periodicals;

(g)   appraising manuscripts submitted for publication in book
      form, making recommendations thereon and editing or
      supervising editing of the material;

(h)   writing advertising copy promoting particular products or
      services;

(i)   selecting, assembling and preparing publicity material
      about business or other organisations for issue through
      press, radio, television and other media;

(j)   designing and writing brochures, handbooks and similar
      technical publications;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Author
  Copywriter, advertising
  Critic
  Editor
  Journalist
  Writer, technical

9211  FARM-HANDS AND LABOURERS
 

     Farm-hands and labourers help with farm work by performing
a variety of  simple farming tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging and shovelling to clear ditches or for other
     purposes;

(b)  loading, unloading various crops and other materials;

(c)  raking, pitching and stacking hay;

(d)  watering and weeding;

(e)  picking fruit, vegetables and various plants;

(f)  helping with planting, harvesting and general farmwork;

(g)  feeding, watering, and cleaning animals and keeping their
     quarters clean;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, farm
  Picker, fruit
Some related occupations classified else where:
  Shepherd - 6121
  Farm worker, skilled/field crops - 6111
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock - 6121

7441  PELT DRESSERS, TANNERS AND FELLMONGERS
 

     Pelt dressers, tanners and fellmongers prepare fur- and
wool-bearing  pelts for making garments and other products, and
make leather from hides and  skins.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sorting and grading pelts, hides and skins;

(b)  removing flesh and fat from pelts before curing;

(c)  removing flesh and hair from hides;

(d)  removing long, coarse hair from pelts and trimming
     underlying hair to even length;

(e)  operating machine to split hides edgeways;

(f)  treating hides to convert them into leather;

(g)  applying dyes to fur pelts;

(h)  dressing and applying dyes and stains to leather;

(i)  stretching and smoothing dressed pelts;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fellmonger
  Grader, pelt
  Tanner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, tanning - 8265

7136  PLUMBERS AND PIPE FITTERS
 

     Plumbers and pipe fitters assemble, fit, install and repair
plumbing  fixtures, or pipes and pipeline systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting, threading, bending, jointing, assembling,
     installing, maintaining and repairing pipes, fittings and
     fixtures of drainage, heating, water supply and sewerage
     systems;

(b)  assembling, installing, maintaining and repairing pipeline
     systems in ships, aircraft, buildings, industrial plant,
     etc.;

(c)  laying clay, concrete or cast-iron pipes in ditches to form
     sewers, drains or water mains, or for other purposes;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, pipe
  Layer, pipe
  Plumber
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, pipe installation 8290

7245  ELECTRICAL LINE INSTALLERS, REPAIRERS AND CABLE JOINTERS
 

     Electrical line installers, repairers and cable jointers
install and  repair electrical lines and joint cables.

     Tasks include -

(a)  installing and repairing overhead and underground electrical
     power and electrical traction lines;

(b)  installing and repairing overhead and underground telephone
     and telegraph lines;

(c)  making joints in overhead and underground cables;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cable worker, telegraph
  Jointer, cable/electric
  Line worker/electric power
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, electrical line installation - 8290

3226  PHYSIOTHERAPISTS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Physiotherapists and related associate professionals treat
disorders of  bones, muscles and parts of the circulatory or the
nervous system by  manipulative methods, and ultrasound, heating,
laser or similar techniques, or  apply physiotherapy and related
therapies as part of the treatment for the physically disabled,
mentally ill or unbalanced.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising communities and individuals on correct body
      postures, for work or otherwise, to avoid injuries and
      strain and to strengthen muscles;


(b)   conducting examinations to make diagnoses of disorders of
      bones, muscles and parts of the circulatory or the nervous
      system to determine proper treatment or refer to Medical
      doctors, if necessary;

(c)   treating disorders of bones, muscles and parts of the
      circulatory or the nervous system by manipulative methods,
      and the use of ultrasound, heating, laser or similar
      techniques;

(d)   massaging client or patient to improve circulation, soothe
      or stimulate nerves, facilitate elimination of waste
      matter, stretch contracted tendons and produce other
      therapeutic effects;

(e)   examining body deformities and disorders to determine and
      write specifications for artificial limbs or other
      appliances, helping to fit them and explaining their use;

(f)   applying physiotherapy and related techniques as part of
      the treatment of the mentally ill or unbalanced;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Chiropractor
  Physiotherapist
  Podiatrist

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Therapist, occupational - 3229

2451  AUTHORS, JOURNALISTS AND OTHER WRITERS 
     Authors, journalists and other writers write literary works
for  publication or presentation in dramatic form, appraise
merits of artistic  productions, or literary and other works of
art, or write and edit news,  stories and commentaries.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing literary works for publication or
      presentation in dramatic form;

(b)   writing scripts and continuities and preparing programmes
      for stage, film, radio and television productions;

(c)   appraising and writing about merits of literary, musical
      and other works of art, and about artistic performances;

(d)   collecting, reporting and commenting on news and current
      affairs for publication in newspapers and periodicals, or
      for broadcasting by radio or television;

(e)   interviewing politicians and other public figures at press
      conferences and on other occasions, including individual
      interviews recorded for radio or television;

(f)   writing editorials and selecting, revising, arranging and
      editing submitted articles and other material for
      publication in newspapers and periodicals;

(g)   appraising manuscripts submitted for publication in book
      form, making recommendations thereon and editing or
      supervising editing of the material;

(h)   writing advertising copy promoting particular products or
      services;

(i)   selecting, assembling and preparing publicity material
      about business or other organisations for issue through
      press, radio, television and other media;

(j)   designing and writing brochures, handbooks and similar
      technical publications;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Author
  Copywriter, advertising
  Critic
  Editor
  Journalist
  Writer, technical

5162  POLICE OFFICERS
 
     Police officers maintain law and order and enforce laws and
regulations.

     Tasks include -

(a)  maintaining law and order;

(b)  protecting persons and property from hazards and unlawful
     acts;

(c)  arresting persons for contraventions of the law;

(d)  directing traffic and assuming authority in the event of
     accidents;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Constable
  Patrolman, police
  Patrolwoman, police
  Police officer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Chief Constable, police - 1120
  Commissioner, police - 1120
  Inspector-general, police - 1120

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

7322  GLASS-MAKERS, CUTTERS, GRINDERS AND FINISHERS
 

     Glass-makers, cutters, grinders and finishers blow, mould,
press and roll  shapes from molten glass and cut, grind and
polish glass.

     Tasks include -

(a)  shaping molten glass by means of blowpipe, hand moulding,
     heating and bending;

(b)  heating, moulding and pressing optical glass to make lens
     blanks;

(c)  grinding and polishing lens blanks;

(d)  grinding and bevelling edges of glass;

(e)  cutting sheet glass with hand tools and sawing prisms and
     other shapes from optical glass blocks;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blower, glass
  Cutter, glass
  Finisher, glass
  Grinder, glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Furnace-operator, glass production - 8131

7113  STONE SPLITTERS, CUTTERS AND CARVERS
 



     Stone splitters, cutters and carvers break quarried stone
slabs or  blocks, or by using hand or hand-powered tools cut,
shape and finish stone for  building, ornamental, monumental and
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving wedges into quarried stone to break it into slabs
     or blocks;

(b)  selecting and grading slabs and blocks of granite, marble,
     and other stone;

(c)  cutting, shaping and finishing building and monumental stone
     such as granite or marble by using hand or hand-powered
     tools;

(d)  making patterns and marking shapes on stone for subsequent
     sawing, planing, drilling and other dressing and cutting
     operations;

(e)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     blocks used for monuments or memorials;

(f)  setting stone in the erection of monuments and memorials;

(g)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     used for decorative facings on buildings-

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carver, stone
  Cutter, stone
  Mason, monument
  Splitter, stone
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, carving/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, cutting/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, splitting/stone 8112
  Sculptor - 2452
  Stonemason, construction - 7122

7313  JEWELLERY AND PRECIOUS-METAL WORKERS
 

     Jewellery and precious-metal workers make and repair
jewellery and  precious metalware, cut and set gems and engrave
designs on jewellery and  precious metal articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  casting jewellery and other non-ferrous metal articles by
     hand;

(b)  making complete jewellery articles such as rings, brooches
     and bracelets;

(c)  cutting and polishing gems and setting them in jewellery
     articles;

(d)  making and repairing precious metalware;

(e)  rolling and beating precious metals; engraving letters and
     designs on jewellery and precious metalware;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, jewellery
  Goldsmith
  Jeweller
  Setter, gem
  Silversmith

7441  PELT DRESSERS, TANNERS AND FELLMONGERS
 

     Pelt dressers, tanners and fellmongers prepare fur- and
wool-bearing  pelts for making garments and other products, and
make leather from hides and  skins.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sorting and grading pelts, hides and skins;

(b)  removing flesh and fat from pelts before curing;

(c)  removing flesh and hair from hides;

(d)  removing long, coarse hair from pelts and trimming
     underlying hair to even length;

(e)  operating machine to split hides edgeways;

(f)  treating hides to convert them into leather;

(g)  applying dyes to fur pelts;

(h)  dressing and applying dyes and stains to leather;

(i)  stretching and smoothing dressed pelts;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fellmonger
  Grader, pelt
  Tanner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, tanning - 8265

7113  STONE SPLITTERS, CUTTERS AND CARVERS
 



     Stone splitters, cutters and carvers break quarried stone
slabs or  blocks, or by using hand or hand-powered tools cut,
shape and finish stone for  building, ornamental, monumental and
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving wedges into quarried stone to break it into slabs
     or blocks;

(b)  selecting and grading slabs and blocks of granite, marble,
     and other stone;

(c)  cutting, shaping and finishing building and monumental stone
     such as granite or marble by using hand or hand-powered
     tools;

(d)  making patterns and marking shapes on stone for subsequent
     sawing, planing, drilling and other dressing and cutting
     operations;

(e)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     blocks used for monuments or memorials;

(f)  setting stone in the erection of monuments and memorials;

(g)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     used for decorative facings on buildings-

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carver, stone
  Cutter, stone
  Mason, monument
  Splitter, stone
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, carving/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, cutting/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, splitting/stone 8112
  Sculptor - 2452
  Stonemason, construction - 7122

7224  METAL WHEEL-GRINDERS, POLISHERS AND TOOL SHARPENERS
 

     Metal wheel-grinders, polishers and tool sharpeners grind
and polish  metal surfaces and sharpen tools.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating fixed or portable buffing and polishing machines;

(b)  sharpening cutting tools and instruments using grinding
     wheel or mechanically operated grinding machines;

(c)  repairing, adjusting and sharpening saw blades and metal
     teeth of cylinders in textile carding machines;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Finisher, metal
  Grinder, tool
  Polisher, metal
  Sharpener, knife
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal - 8223
  Machine-operator polishing/metal -8223

9120  SHOE CLEANING AND OTHER STREET SERVICES ELEMENTARY OCCUPATIONS
 

     Shoe cleaning and other street services elementary
occupations usually  include cleaning shoes, washing car windows,
running errands and providing  other on-the-spot street services.
(a)  obtaining the materials necessary to perform cleaning
     services;

(b)  cleaning and polishing shoes;

(c)  cleaning and polishing car windows;

(d)  running errands;

(e)  receiving immediate payment;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Errand boy
  Shoe-polisher
  Washer, hand/street (car windows)

7113  STONE SPLITTERS, CUTTERS AND CARVERS
 



     Stone splitters, cutters and carvers break quarried stone
slabs or  blocks, or by using hand or hand-powered tools cut,
shape and finish stone for  building, ornamental, monumental and
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving wedges into quarried stone to break it into slabs
     or blocks;

(b)  selecting and grading slabs and blocks of granite, marble,
     and other stone;

(c)  cutting, shaping and finishing building and monumental stone
     such as granite or marble by using hand or hand-powered
     tools;

(d)  making patterns and marking shapes on stone for subsequent
     sawing, planing, drilling and other dressing and cutting
     operations;

(e)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     blocks used for monuments or memorials;

(f)  setting stone in the erection of monuments and memorials;

(g)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     used for decorative facings on buildings-

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carver, stone
  Cutter, stone
  Mason, monument
  Splitter, stone
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, carving/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, cutting/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, splitting/stone 8112
  Sculptor - 2452
  Stonemason, construction - 7122

2443  PHILOSOPHERS, HISTORIANS AND POLITICAL SCIENTISTS 
     Philosophers, historians and political scientists work,
mostly by  reasoning, in the field of epistemology, metaphysics
or ethics.  They conduct  research and describe past events and
activities, including the development of  social and economic
structures, or cultural and political institutions and 
movements, and make the knowledge obtained available as a basis
for political,  diplomatic and related policies.

     Tasks include -

(a)   researching, mostly by reasoning, into the general causes,
      principles and meanings of the world, human actions,
      experience and existence, and interpreting and developing
      philosophical concepts and theories;

(b)   consulting and comparing primary sources, such as original
      or contemporary records of past events, and secondary
      sources such as archaeological or anthropological findings;

(c)   extracting relevant material, checking its authenticity,
      and researching into and describing the history of a
      particular period, country or region, or a particular facet
      - for example economic, social or political - of its
      history;

(d)   conducting research in such fields as political philosophy,
      or past and present theory and practice of political
      systems, institutions or behaviour;

(e)   observing contemporary political institutions and
      collecting data on them from various sources, including
      interviews with government and political party officials
      and other relevant persons;

(f)   presenting findings and conclusions for publication or use
      by government, political parties or other organisations and
      interested persons;

(g)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Historian
  Philosopher
  Political scientist

2213  AGRONOMISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Agronomists and related professionals conduct research and
improve or  develop concepts, theories and operational methods,
and apply scientific  knowledge relating to crop and animal
husbandry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   researching into field crops and grasses and developing new
      or improved cultivation methods;

(b)   researching into horticultural crops and developing new or
      improved cultivation methods;

(c)   researching into animal husbandry and developing new or
      improved breeding methods;

(d)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for tree propagation and culture, or planning and directing
      afforestation and exploitation of forest stands;

(e)   researching into characteristics, use capability and
      productivity of soils and applying findings to development
      of improved agricultural, horticultural and forestry
      practices;

(f)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for wildlife conservation;

(g)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for economic exploitation of grazing lands;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Agronomist
  Animal scientist
  Forestry scientist
  Horticulturist
  Soil scientist

2460  RELIGIOUS PROFESSIONALS 
      
     Religious professionals function as perpetrators of the
sacred  traditions, practices and beliefs and celebrate or
administer at the rituals  of initiation, preside over ritual
reenactments of creative, redemptive or  salvatory events, and
offer sacrifices to the gods or to one God.

     Tasks include -

(a)   perpetuating sacred traditions, practices and beliefs;

(d)   conducting religious services, rites and ceremonies;

(c)   undertaking various administrative and social duties,
      including a ending committees and meetings of religious
      organisations;

(d)   providing spiritual and moral guidance in accordance with
      the religion professed;

(e)   propagating religious doctrines in own country or abroad;

(f)   preparing religious sermons and preachings;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bonze
  Imam
  Minister, religion
  Monk, professional
  Nun, professional
  Poojari
  Priest
  Rabbi

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Monk, associate professional - 3480
  Nun, associate professional - 3480
  Preacher, lay - 3480

9333  FREIGHT HANDLERS
 

     Freight handlers carry out tasks such as packing, carrying,
loading and  unloading furniture and other household items, or
loading and unloading ship  and aircraft cargoes and other
freight, or carrying and stacking goods in  various warehouses.

     Tasks include -

(a)  packing office or household furniture, machines, appliances
     and related goods to be transported from one place to
     another;

(b)  carrying goods to be loaded on or unloaded from vans,
     trucks, wagons, ships, or aircraft;

(c)  loading and unloading grain, coal, sand and similar goods
     by placing them on conveyor-belts, pipes, etc. ;

(d)  connecting hoses between main shore installation pipes and
     tanks of barges, tankers and other ships to load and unload
     petroleum, liquefied gases and other liquids;

(e)  carrying and stacking goods in warehouses and similar
     establishments;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Handler, freight
Some related occupations classified else where:
  Operator, crane - 8333
  Operator, truck/lifting - 8334

9152  DOORKEEPERS, WATCHPERSONS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Doorkeepers, watchpersons and related workers undertake
doorkeeping  duties in apartment houses and other buildings,
attend parking places, watch  houses and other properties to
prevent illegal entry or theft and detect fire  or other hazards,
collect tickets, or perform ushering duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  doorkeeping in hotels and helping guests, especially on
     their arrival and departure, with luggage, keys, or
     information about directions, etc. ;

(b)  doorkeeping in apartment houses and other buildings,
     checking the right-of-entry of callers and giving them
     requested information;

(c)  watching houses and other properties to prevent illegal
     entry or theft, fire or other hazards;

(d)  ushering people into courtrooms, sporting places and similar
     
     establishments;

(e)  collecting tickets in cinemas, theatres, circuses and
     related places;

(f)  taking charge of cloakrooms or lavatories in public places;

(g)  attending parking places;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Attendant, cloakroom
  Collector, ticket
  Concierge, hotel desk
  Doorkeeper
  Guard, museum
  Porter, hotel
  Watchman
  Watchwoman
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Bodyguard - 5169
  Concierge, building - 9141
  Game-warden - 5169
  Patrolman, security - 5169
  Patrolwoman security - 5169
  Porter, luggage - 9151

9151  MESSENGERS, PACKAGE AND LUGGAGE PORTERS AND DELIVERERS
 

     Messengers, package and luggage porters and deliverers carry
and deliver  messages, packages and other items within an
establishment or between  establishments, to households and
elsewhere, or carry luggage especially at  hotels, stations and
airports.

     Tasks include -

(a)  delivering messages, packages and other items within an
     establishment or between establishments, or elsewhere;

(b)  performing the duties of a post-runner;

(c)  delivering various goods to and from enterprises, shops,
     households and other places;

(d)  carrying and delivering luggage at hotels, stations,
     airports, and elsewhere;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Deliverer, hand/newspapers
  Messenger
  Porter, luggage
  Post-runner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Postman - 4142
  Postwoman - 4142

9333  FREIGHT HANDLERS
 

     Freight handlers carry out tasks such as packing, carrying,
loading and  unloading furniture and other household items, or
loading and unloading ship  and aircraft cargoes and other
freight, or carrying and stacking goods in  various warehouses.

     Tasks include -

(a)  packing office or household furniture, machines, appliances
     and related goods to be transported from one place to
     another;

(b)  carrying goods to be loaded on or unloaded from vans,
     trucks, wagons, ships, or aircraft;

(c)  loading and unloading grain, coal, sand and similar goods
     by placing them on conveyor-belts, pipes, etc. ;

(d)  connecting hoses between main shore installation pipes and
     tanks of barges, tankers and other ships to load and unload
     petroleum, liquefied gases and other liquids;

(e)  carrying and stacking goods in warehouses and similar
     establishments;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Handler, freight
Some related occupations classified else where:
  Operator, crane - 8333
  Operator, truck/lifting - 8334

4142  MAIL CARRIERS AND SORTING CLERKS
 
     Mail carriers and sorting clerks perform sorting, recording,
delivery and  other duties in connection with mail services from
post offices or related  organisations, as well as from or within
an establishment.
     Tasks include -

(a)  performing mail-handling duties in public post offices;
(b)  sorting and delivering mail to private houses and elsewhere;
(c)  sorting and keeping simple records of incoming and outgoing 
     correspondence and dispatching outgoing mail in various
     establishments;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, mail/dispatch
  Clerk, mail/sorting
  Post carrier
  Postman
  Postwoman

9151  MESSENGERS, PACKAGE AND LUGGAGE PORTERS AND DELIVERERS
 

     Messengers, package and luggage porters and deliverers carry
and deliver  messages, packages and other items within an
establishment or between  establishments, to households and
elsewhere, or carry luggage especially at  hotels, stations and
airports.

     Tasks include -

(a)  delivering messages, packages and other items within an
     establishment or between establishments, or elsewhere;

(b)  performing the duties of a post-runner;

(c)  delivering various goods to and from enterprises, shops,
     households and other places;

(d)  carrying and delivering luggage at hotels, stations,
     airports, and elsewhere;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Deliverer, hand/newspapers
  Messenger
  Porter, luggage
  Post-runner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Postman - 4142
  Postwoman - 4142

4142  MAIL CARRIERS AND SORTING CLERKS
 
     Mail carriers and sorting clerks perform sorting, recording,
delivery and  other duties in connection with mail services from
post offices or related  organisations, as well as from or within
an establishment.
     Tasks include -

(a)  performing mail-handling duties in public post offices;
(b)  sorting and delivering mail to private houses and elsewhere;
(c)  sorting and keeping simple records of incoming and outgoing 
     correspondence and dispatching outgoing mail in various
     establishments;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, mail/dispatch
  Clerk, mail/sorting
  Post carrier
  Postman
  Postwoman

1226  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS IN TRANSPORT,
STORAGE AND  COMMUNICATIONS 
      Production and operations department managers in transport,
storage and  communications plan, direct and coordinate those
activities of the enterprise  which are concerned with providing
relevant services, under the broad guidance  of the directors and
chief executives, and in consultation with managers of  other
departments or sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the provision of relevant services;

(b)   ensuring the efficient use of resources and the fulfilment
      of service quotas;

(c)   planning and directing daily service operations;

(d)   controlling expenditure;

(e)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(f)   overseeing the application of work safety and related
      procedures;

(g)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(h)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the enterprise or with outside bodies;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Department manager, production and
         operations/communications

Department manager, production and operations/storage

Department manager, production and operations/transport

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, storage - 1316

Managing director, enterprise/communications - 1210

Managing director, enterprise/transport - 1210

1120  SENIOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS 

      Senior government officials advise governments on policy
matters, oversee the interpretation and implementation of
government policies and legislation  by government departments
and agencies, represent their country abroad and act  on its
behalf, or carry out similar tasks in intergovernmental
organisations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   advising national, state, regional or local governments on
      policy matters;

(b)   advising on the preparation of government budgets, laws and
      regulations, including amendments;

(c)   overseeing the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies and legislation by government
      departments and agencies;

(d)   representing their country abroad;
         
(e)   performing similar tasks in intergovernmental
      organisations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Administrator, government
Administrator, intergovernmental organisation
Ambassador
Consul-general
Secretary, government/non legislative

4142  MAIL CARRIERS AND SORTING CLERKS
 
     Mail carriers and sorting clerks perform sorting, recording,
delivery and  other duties in connection with mail services from
post offices or related  organisations, as well as from or within
an establishment.
     Tasks include -

(a)  performing mail-handling duties in public post offices;
(b)  sorting and delivering mail to private houses and elsewhere;
(c)  sorting and keeping simple records of incoming and outgoing 
     correspondence and dispatching outgoing mail in various
     establishments;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, mail/dispatch
  Clerk, mail/sorting
  Post carrier
  Postman
  Postwoman

7321  ABRASIVE WHEEL FORMERS, POTTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Abrasive wheel formers, potters and related workers make
pottery,  porcelain ware, bricks, tiles and abrasive wheels.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making articles of pottery and porcelain;

(b)  making clay or plaster-of-Paris moulds;

(c)  forming articles on potter's wheel with hands, or using
     interior or exterior moulding shapes and shaping tools;

(d)  forming articles by casting semi-liquid clay in plaster-of-
     Paris moulds;

(e)  forming bricks and tiles into special shapes by hand;

(f)  making articles by pressing plastic clay into moulds by
     hand;

(g)  operating screw-press or hydraulic press to make products
     from clay dust;

(h)  operating a machine which extrudes moist clay for further
     processing;

(i)  forming abrasive wheels by moulding and pressing abrasive
     mixture;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Caster, pottery and porcelain
  Modeller, pottery and porcelain
  Potter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln operator, brick and tile - 8131
  Kiln operator, pottery and porcelain 8131

3229  MODERN HEALTH ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS (EXCEPT NURSING) NOT
ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers modern health associate professionals
(except  nursing) not classified elsewhere in Minor group 322,
Modem health associate  professionals (except nursing).

     For instance, here should be classified those who practise
homeopathy,  plan and carry out therapeutical activities to help
the mentally unbalanced,  ill, or physically handicapped, deal
with speech impediments, provide eye  exercises as remedial
treatment, or deal with orientation problems of the  blind.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   treating a particular illness by giving the patient
      infinitesimal doses of the bodies which provoke similar
      illnesses;

(b)   planning or carrying out therapeutic activities connected
      with education, vocational training or recreation in order
      to help the mentally unbalanced, ill, or physically
      handicapped;

(c)   dealing with pronunciation defects;

(d)   correcting sonority of language pronunciation;

(e)   applying remedial treatment to the eye muscles by means of
      eye exercises;

(f)   treating orientation problems of the blind;

(g)   performing related tasks;


(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 Homeopath
  Orthoepist
  Orthophonist
  Therapist, occupational

3480  RELIGIOUS ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Religious associate professionals undertake religious works,
devote their  lives to contemplative prayer or meditation, and
preach and propagate the  teachings of their particular religion.     Tasks include -

(a)   undertaking religious works;

(b)   living as a member of a separate community, and observing
      its rules and practices;

(c)   devoting their lives to contemplative prayer or meditation;

(d)   preaching and propagating the teachings of a particular
      religious faith;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Monk, associate professional
  Nun, associate professional
  Preacher, lay
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Bonze - 2460	
  Imam - 2460
  Minister, religion - 2460
  Monk, professional - 2460
  Nun, professional - 2460
  Poojari - 2460
  Priest - 2460
  Rabbi- 2460

8112  MINERAL-ORE- AND STONE-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mineral-ore- and stone-processing-plant operators operate
and monitor  machinery and equipment for processing mineral ore
and stone.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which crushes and breaks
     lumps of minerals and stones to required size;

(b)  operating and monitoring washing, separating, leaching,
     precipitating, filtering, extracting and combining equipment
     to wash mineral ores in order to remove waste material;

(c)  combining mineral ores with solvents to facilitate further
     processing;

(d)  separating metal or mineral concentrates from ore or
     alluvial deposits by thickening, flotation, gravity
     separation, filtration, or magnetic or electrostatic
     separation;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Floatation worker, minerals
  Machine-operator, crushing/mineral ore
  Machine-operator, milling/minerals
  Machine-operator, stone processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cutter, stone - 7113
  Splitter, stone - 7113

7431  FIBRE PREPARERS
 

     Fibre preparers prepare wool, cotton,flax, jute, hemp and
other natural  textile fibres for spinning and winding.

     Tasks include -

(a)  grading and classifying natural textile fibres;

(b)  washing wool fibres;

(c)  cleaning and fluffing textile fibres;

(d)  forming fibres into sliver, combing them, combining sliver
     into sliver laps or forming sliver into rove;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Comber, fibre/textiles
  Drawer, fibre/textiles
  Rover, fibre/textiles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator combing/textile fibres - 8261

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

7214  STRUCTURAL-METAL PREPARERS AND ERECTORS
 

     Structural-metal preparers and erectors shape, assemble and
erect heavy  metal girders and plates to form structures and
frameworks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  marking metal members as a guide when drilling, cutting, and
     shaping them for use in buildings, ships and other
     structures;

(b)  drilling, cutting and shaping structural steel in a
     workshop;

(c)  erecting steel members for buildings, bridges and other
     constructions;

(d)  assembling and erecting the framework and other metal parts
     of ships' structures;

(e)  shaping and fitting structural-steel plates of ships under
     construction or repair;

(f)  riveting structural-metal members by hand, machine or
     pneumatic riveter;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Erector, structural metal
  Preparer, structural metal
  Riveter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, rivet production 8211

7414  FRUIT, VEGETABLE AND RELATED PRESERVERS
 

     Fruit, vegetable and related preservers process or preserve
fruit, nuts  and related foods in various ways including cooking,
drying, salting, or juice  or oil extraction.

     Tasks include -

(a)  extracting juices from various fruits;

(b)  extracting oils from oil-bearing seeds, nuts or fruits;

(c)  cooking, salting or drying fruit, vegetables and related
     foods;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Expeller, oil
  Preserver, fruit
  Preserver, vegetable
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, canning/fruit - 8275
  Machine-operator, canning/vegetables - 8275

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

7414  FRUIT, VEGETABLE AND RELATED PRESERVERS
 

     Fruit, vegetable and related preservers process or preserve
fruit, nuts  and related foods in various ways including cooking,
drying, salting, or juice  or oil extraction.

     Tasks include -

(a)  extracting juices from various fruits;

(b)  extracting oils from oil-bearing seeds, nuts or fruits;

(c)  cooking, salting or drying fruit, vegetables and related
     foods;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Expeller, oil
  Preserver, fruit
  Preserver, vegetable
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, canning/fruit - 8275
  Machine-operator, canning/vegetables - 8275

1142  SENIOR OFFICIALS OF EMPLOYERS', WORKERS' AND OTHER
ECONOMIC-INTEREST  ORGANISATIONS 
      Senior officials of employers', workers' and other
economic-interest  organisations determine and formulate
policies, rules and regulations of their  respective
organisations, direct their application, represent these 
organisations and act on their behalf.

      Tasks include -

(a)   deciding and formulating the organisation's policies, rules
      and regulations;

(b)   negotiating on behalf of the organisation and its members;

(c)   promoting the interests of the organisation and its members
      before the legislature, government or general public;

(d)   planning and organising campaigns to recruit and educate
      members;

(e)   planning, organising and directing sections charged with
      implementing the organisation's policies, rules and
      regulations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Secretary-general, employers' organisation
Secretary-general, trade union
Senior official, employers' organisation
Senior official, trade union

1210  DIRECTORS AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES 
      Directors and chief executives head enterprises or
organisations (except  special interest organisations) and, with
the help of at least two other managers, determine and formulate
policies and plan, direct and  coordinate the general functioning
of the enterprise or organisation usually  within the guidelines
set up by a board of directors or a governing body, to  whom they
are answerable for the operations undertaken and results
obtained.

      Tasks include -

(a)   determining and formulating policies of the enterprise or
      organisation;

(b)   planning, directing and coordinating the general
      functioning of the enterprise or organisation;

(c)   determining and directing a particular policy, through
      consultation with subordinate managers;

(d)   reviewing the operations and results of the enterprise, or
      organisation, and reporting to governing bodies;

(e)   representing the enterprise or organisation in its dealings
      with outside bodies, including government or other
      authorities;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Chief executive, enterprise

Director-general, enterprise

Director-general, organisation

Managing director, enterprise

Managing director, organisation

President, organisation

1110  LEGISLATORS 
      Legislators determine, formulate, and direct policies of
national, state,  regional or local governments, and make,
ratify, amend or repeal laws, public  rules and regulations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   presiding over or participating in the proceedings of
      legislative bodies and administrative councils of national,
      state, regional or local governments or legislative
      assemblies;

(b)   determining, formulating, and directing policies of
      national, state, regional or local governments;

(c)   making, ratifying, amending or repealing laws, public rules
      and regulations within the framework of a Constitution
      determining their powers and fields of jurisdiction;

(d)   serving on government administrative boards or official
      committees;

(e)   promoting the interests of the constituencies which they
      represent;

(f)   as members of the government, directing senior
      administrators and officials of government departments and
      agencies in the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Minister, government

President, government

Prime minister

Secretary, government/legislative

Senator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Secretary, government/non legislative - 1120

1210  DIRECTORS AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES 
      Directors and chief executives head enterprises or
organisations (except  special interest organisations) and, with
the help of at least two other managers, determine and formulate
policies and plan, direct and  coordinate the general functioning
of the enterprise or organisation usually  within the guidelines
set up by a board of directors or a governing body, to  whom they
are answerable for the operations undertaken and results
obtained.

      Tasks include -

(a)   determining and formulating policies of the enterprise or
      organisation;

(b)   planning, directing and coordinating the general
      functioning of the enterprise or organisation;

(c)   determining and directing a particular policy, through
      consultation with subordinate managers;

(d)   reviewing the operations and results of the enterprise, or
      organisation, and reporting to governing bodies;

(e)   representing the enterprise or organisation in its dealings
      with outside bodies, including government or other
      authorities;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Chief executive, enterprise

Director-general, enterprise

Director-general, organisation

Managing director, enterprise

Managing director, organisation

President, organisation

1141  SENIOR OFFICIALS OF POLITICAL-PARTY ORGANISATIONS 
      Senior officials of political-party organisations determine
and formulate  policies, rules and regulations of political-party
organisations, direct their  application, represent these
organisations and act on their behalf.

      Tasks include -

(a)   determining and formulating the political-party's policies,
      rules and regulations;

(b)   negotiating on behalf of the political party and its
      members;

(c)   planning and organising campaigns, on behalf of the
      political party, for the e lection of its candidates to
      political offices;

(d)   planning and organising campaigns to recruit and educate
      political party members;

(e)   planning, organising and directing sections charged with
      implementing the political-party's policies, rules and
      regulations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Leader, political party

President, political party

Senior official, political party

8290  OTHER MACHINE OPERATORS AND ASSEMBLERS
 

     Other machine operators and assemblers operate and monitor
machines which  pack, label and, if needed, add revenue stamps
to products, packages and  containers, or assemble, according to
strictly laid down procedures, products  whose component parts
are made of a wide range of materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which wrap and pack
     various products, including liquid ones, for storage or
     shipment;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which, by gluing or other
     methods, label products, packages and various containers,
     or add revenue stamps;

(c)  assembling, according to strictly laid down procedures,
     products whose component parts are made of a very wide range
     of materials;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Assembler, composite products
  Machine-operator, labelling
  Machine-operator, packing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Packer, hand - 9322

8275  FRUIT-, VEGETABLE- AND NUT-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fruit-, vegetable- and nut-processing machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which extract juice from fruit and
vegetables or oil from  oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit, and
which process fruit, vegetables and  nuts by drying, cooking,
canning or freezing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which extract juice from
     fruit and vegetables by heating or pressing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     oil from oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make margarine and
     similar products from animal and vegetable oils;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare fruit,
     vegetables and nuts for further processing ;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which dry, cook, can,
     freeze or otherwise process fruit, vegetables and nuts

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fruit processing
  Machine-operator, vegetable processing
  Press-operator, edible oils
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Expeller, oil - 7414
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production - 8278
  Preserver, fruit - 7414
  Preserver, vegetable - 7414

8139  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers glass and ceramics plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 813, Glass and ceramics
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment used
to mix ingredients for  glass-making or for the preparation of
clay, glaze and abrasives, or which  extrude molten glass in
order to form fibreglass filaments.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which mix ingredients for
     glass-making;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare clay for the
     production of ceramics and bricks;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines for making glaze or
     abrasives

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude molten glass
     to form fibreglass filaments ;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, mixing/clay
  Machine-operator, mixing/glass

8124  METAL DRAWERS AND EXTRUDERS

 

     Metal drawers and extruders operate and monitor machinery
and equipment  which draw and extrude metals to make wire, tubes
and similar products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring wire-drawing machines;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines to draw seamless metal
     tubing;

(c)  operating and monitoring extrusion presses to make metal
     rods, bars and seamless tubing;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, drawing/wire
  Machine-operator, extruding/metal
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Drawer, wire - 7221

8139  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers glass and ceramics plant operators
not classified  elsewhere in Minor group 813, Glass and ceramics
plant operators.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment used
to mix ingredients for  glass-making or for the preparation of
clay, glaze and abrasives, or which  extrude molten glass in
order to form fibreglass filaments.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which mix ingredients for
     glass-making;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare clay for the
     production of ceramics and bricks;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines for making glaze or
     abrasives

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which extrude molten glass
     to form fibreglass filaments ;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, mixing/clay
  Machine-operator, mixing/glass

7221  BLACKSMITHS, HAMMER-SMITHS AND FORGING-PRESS WORKERS
 

     Blacksmiths, hammer-smiths and forging-press workers draw
wire, hammer  and forge bars, rods, ingots and plates of iron,
steel or other metals to make  and repair various kinds of tools,
metal articles, pieces of equipment,  agricultural and related
implements.

     Tasks include -

(a)  heating metal in forge furnace and manufacturing and
     repairing articles by drawing, bending, cutting, hammering
     metal on an anvil, punching, shearing, joining and hardening
     or tempering;

(b)  shaping heated metal into forgings on power hammer equipped
     with open dies;

(c)  operating closed-die drop hammer to forge metal articles;

(d)  operating a power-press machine equipped with closed dies
to
     forge metal articles;

(e)  drawing wire;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blacksmith
  Drop-hammer worker
  Forging-press worker
  Hammer-smith
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, casting/metal - 8122
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

8275  FRUIT-, VEGETABLE- AND NUT-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Fruit-, vegetable- and nut-processing machine operators
operate and  monitor machines which extract juice from fruit and
vegetables or oil from  oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit, and
which process fruit, vegetables and  nuts by drying, cooking,
canning or freezing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which extract juice from
     fruit and vegetables by heating or pressing;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which extract and refine
     oil from oil-bearing seeds, nuts and fruit;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make margarine and
     similar products from animal and vegetable oils;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which prepare fruit,
     vegetables and nuts for further processing ;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which dry, cook, can,
     freeze or otherwise process fruit, vegetables and nuts

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, fruit processing
  Machine-operator, vegetable processing
  Press-operator, edible oils
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Expeller, oil - 7414
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production - 8278
  Preserver, fruit - 7414
  Preserver, vegetable - 7414

8143  PAPERMAKING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Papermaking-plant operators operate and monitor machinery
and equipment  which makes paper, paper board and sheet pulp from
pulp stock.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring section of papermaking machinery
     and equipment in which wet pulp is formed into paper or in
     which paper is dried, calendered, wound, slit and rewound;

(b)  operating and monitoring supercalenders used to impart gloss
     and finish to surface of paper;

(c)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment used to
     glaze or impregnate paper with coating mixture;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, papermaking plant
  Operator, supercalender

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8141  WOOD-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Wood-processing-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment for sawing wood, cutting veneer and
making plywood, and otherwise  prepare wood for further use.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring log in-feed and conveyor systems;

(b)  operating and monitoring head saws, resaws and multiblade
     saws to saw logs, cants, flitches, slabs or wings and remove
     rough edges from sawn timber;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut veneer;

(d)  operating and monitoring plywood core-laying machines and
     hot-plate plywood presses;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, band-saw
  Operator, sawmill
  Operator, wood-processing plant
  Press-operator, plywood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Wood seasoner - 7421
  Wood treater - 7421

8251  PRINTING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Printing-machine operators operate and monitor various types
of machines  which print on paper, tin plate and other materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring cylinder, platen, rotary, offset,
     direct lithographic, rotogravure, and wallpaper-printing
     presses,

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Press-operator, printing/cylinder
  Press-operator, printing/offset
  Press-operator, printing/rotary
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Compositor printing - 7341
  Printer - 7341
  Typesetter - 7341

8211  MACHINE-TOOL OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool operators operate and monitor automatic or
semi-automatic  metalworking machines which perform repetitive
work and are set up by  machine-tool setters.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring one or more machine tools such as
     lathes, stamping presses, power shears, metal-bending,
     milling, planing, boring, drilling, grinding, honing or
     metal-sawing machines which may be numerically controlled
     or linked by an automatic-transfer machine ;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Lathe-operator, capstan/metalworking
  Machine-operator, boring/metal
  Machine-operator, machine tool
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Setter, machine-tool - 7223
  Setter-operator, machine-tool - 7223

8264  BLEACHING-, DYEING- AND CLEANING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 


     Bleaching-, dyeing- and cleaning-machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which bleach, dye, wash and otherwise treat
fibres, yarn, or cloth or dry clean textile, fur and leather
articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which treat textile
     products to make them lighter in colour or to give them a
     specific colour;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which wash or dry-clean
     textile, fur or leather products to remove dirt, impurities,
     excess chemicals or natural gum;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which shrink cloth or
     strengthen the weave by interlocking the fibres;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which impregnate textiles
     with chemicals to render them waterproof;

(e)  operating and monitoring machines which treat silk to give
     it body and weight;

(f)  operating and monitoring machines which press, stretch, or
     impart lustre, or other type of finish to textiles;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, dry-cleaning
  Machine-operator, dyeing/textile fibres
  Machine-operator, laundering
  Machine-operator, pressing/laundry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Launderer, hand - 91 33
  Presser, hand - 91 33

8141  WOOD-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Wood-processing-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment for sawing wood, cutting veneer and
making plywood, and otherwise  prepare wood for further use.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring log in-feed and conveyor systems;

(b)  operating and monitoring head saws, resaws and multiblade
     saws to saw logs, cants, flitches, slabs or wings and remove
     rough edges from sawn timber;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut veneer;

(d)  operating and monitoring plywood core-laying machines and
     hot-plate plywood presses;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, band-saw
  Operator, sawmill
  Operator, wood-processing plant
  Press-operator, plywood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Wood seasoner - 7421
  Wood treater - 7421

7412  BAKERS, PASTRY-COOKS AND CONFECTIONERY MAKERS
 

     Bakers, pastry-cooks and confectionery makers make various
kinds of  bread, cakes, and other flour products, as well as
handmade chocolate and  sugar confectionery.

     Tasks include  -

(a)  making bread, cakes, biscuits, pastries, pies and other
     flour products;

(b)  making handmade confectionery from mixtures of sugar,
     chocolate and other ingredients with the help of tools and
     some machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Baker
  Confectioner
  Maker, chocolate
 Pastry-cook
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cook - 5122
  Machine-operator, bakery products 8274
  Machine-operator, bread production 8274
  Machine-operator, chocolate production - 8274

7416  TOBACCO PREPARERS AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Tobacco preparers and tobacco products makers prepare
tobacco leaves and  make various tobacco products.

     Tasks  include -

(a)  grading cured tobacco leaves by type, quality and locality
     where grown;

(b)  mixing tobacco leaves according to formula to obtain a blend
     of distinct flavour;

(c)  tending vacuum container which moistens tobacco for further
     processing;

(d)  removing midribs and stalks from tobacco leaves and
     shredding tobacco;

(e)  making cigars, cigarettes, snuff and other tobacco products
     by hand or with simple machines;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, tobacco
  Maker, cigar
  Maker, cigarette
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, cigar production - 8279
  Machine-operator, cigarette production - 8279

7321  ABRASIVE WHEEL FORMERS, POTTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Abrasive wheel formers, potters and related workers make
pottery,  porcelain ware, bricks, tiles and abrasive wheels.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making articles of pottery and porcelain;

(b)  making clay or plaster-of-Paris moulds;

(c)  forming articles on potter's wheel with hands, or using
     interior or exterior moulding shapes and shaping tools;

(d)  forming articles by casting semi-liquid clay in plaster-of-
     Paris moulds;

(e)  forming bricks and tiles into special shapes by hand;

(f)  making articles by pressing plastic clay into moulds by
     hand;

(g)  operating screw-press or hydraulic press to make products
     from clay dust;

(h)  operating a machine which extrudes moist clay for further
     processing;

(i)  forming abrasive wheels by moulding and pressing abrasive
     mixture;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Caster, pottery and porcelain
  Modeller, pottery and porcelain
  Potter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln operator, brick and tile - 8131
  Kiln operator, pottery and porcelain 8131

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

9133  HAND-LAUNDERERS AND PRESSERS
 

     Hand-launderers and pressers launder, press or dry-clean
linen and other  textiles by hand.

     Tasks include -

(a)  laundering and pressing linen, clothing, fabrics and similar
     articles by hand in a laundry or other establishment;

(b)  cleaning, by hand and with chemical solutions, clothing,
     fabrics, leather goods and similar articles, in a dry-
     cleaning or other establishment;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Dry-cleaner, hand
  Launderer, hand
  Presser, hand
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, dry-cleaning - 8264
  Machine-operator, pressing/laundry 8264
  Machine-operator, washing/laundry 8264

7412  BAKERS, PASTRY-COOKS AND CONFECTIONERY MAKERS
 

     Bakers, pastry-cooks and confectionery makers make various
kinds of  bread, cakes, and other flour products, as well as
handmade chocolate and  sugar confectionery.

     Tasks include  -

(a)  making bread, cakes, biscuits, pastries, pies and other
     flour products;

(b)  making handmade confectionery from mixtures of sugar,
     chocolate and other ingredients with the help of tools and
     some machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Baker
  Confectioner
  Maker, chocolate
 Pastry-cook
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cook - 5122
  Machine-operator, bakery products 8274
  Machine-operator, bread production 8274
  Machine-operator, chocolate production - 8274

7321  ABRASIVE WHEEL FORMERS, POTTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Abrasive wheel formers, potters and related workers make
pottery,  porcelain ware, bricks, tiles and abrasive wheels.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making articles of pottery and porcelain;

(b)  making clay or plaster-of-Paris moulds;

(c)  forming articles on potter's wheel with hands, or using
     interior or exterior moulding shapes and shaping tools;

(d)  forming articles by casting semi-liquid clay in plaster-of-
     Paris moulds;

(e)  forming bricks and tiles into special shapes by hand;

(f)  making articles by pressing plastic clay into moulds by
     hand;

(g)  operating screw-press or hydraulic press to make products
     from clay dust;

(h)  operating a machine which extrudes moist clay for further
     processing;

(i)  forming abrasive wheels by moulding and pressing abrasive
     mixture;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Caster, pottery and porcelain
  Modeller, pottery and porcelain
  Potter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln operator, brick and tile - 8131
  Kiln operator, pottery and porcelain 8131

3474  CLOWNS, MAGICIANS, ACROBATS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS
 
     Clowns, magicians, acrobats and related associate
professionals entertain  audiences in circuses and other places
by performing a variety of acts.   
   
     Tasks include -

(a)   performing amusing antics and telling funny stories;

(b)   performing tricks of illusion and sleight of hand, and
      feats of hypnotism;

(c)   performing difficult and spectacular acrobatics, and
      gymnastic or juggling feats:

(d)   training and performing with animals;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Acrobat	
  Aerialist
  Clown
  Hypnotist
  Magician

2460  RELIGIOUS PROFESSIONALS 
      
     Religious professionals function as perpetrators of the
sacred  traditions, practices and beliefs and celebrate or
administer at the rituals  of initiation, preside over ritual
reenactments of creative, redemptive or  salvatory events, and
offer sacrifices to the gods or to one God.

     Tasks include -

(a)   perpetuating sacred traditions, practices and beliefs;

(d)   conducting religious services, rites and ceremonies;

(c)   undertaking various administrative and social duties,
      including a ending committees and meetings of religious
      organisations;

(d)   providing spiritual and moral guidance in accordance with
      the religion professed;

(e)   propagating religious doctrines in own country or abroad;

(f)   preparing religious sermons and preachings;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bonze
  Imam
  Minister, religion
  Monk, professional
  Nun, professional
  Poojari
  Priest
  Rabbi

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Monk, associate professional - 3480
  Nun, associate professional - 3480
  Preacher, lay - 3480

1110  LEGISLATORS 
      Legislators determine, formulate, and direct policies of
national, state,  regional or local governments, and make,
ratify, amend or repeal laws, public  rules and regulations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   presiding over or participating in the proceedings of
      legislative bodies and administrative councils of national,
      state, regional or local governments or legislative
      assemblies;

(b)   determining, formulating, and directing policies of
      national, state, regional or local governments;

(c)   making, ratifying, amending or repealing laws, public rules
      and regulations within the framework of a Constitution
      determining their powers and fields of jurisdiction;

(d)   serving on government administrative boards or official
      committees;

(e)   promoting the interests of the constituencies which they
      represent;

(f)   as members of the government, directing senior
      administrators and officials of government departments and
      agencies in the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Minister, government

President, government

Prime minister

Secretary, government/legislative

Senator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Secretary, government/non legislative - 1120

1210  DIRECTORS AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES 
      Directors and chief executives head enterprises or
organisations (except  special interest organisations) and, with
the help of at least two other managers, determine and formulate
policies and plan, direct and  coordinate the general functioning
of the enterprise or organisation usually  within the guidelines
set up by a board of directors or a governing body, to  whom they
are answerable for the operations undertaken and results
obtained.

      Tasks include -

(a)   determining and formulating policies of the enterprise or
      organisation;

(b)   planning, directing and coordinating the general
      functioning of the enterprise or organisation;

(c)   determining and directing a particular policy, through
      consultation with subordinate managers;

(d)   reviewing the operations and results of the enterprise, or
      organisation, and reporting to governing bodies;

(e)   representing the enterprise or organisation in its dealings
      with outside bodies, including government or other
      authorities;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Chief executive, enterprise

Director-general, enterprise

Director-general, organisation

Managing director, enterprise

Managing director, organisation

President, organisation

1229  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED 
      This unit group covers department managers not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 122, Production and operations
department managers.

      For instance here should be classified those who plan,
direct and  coordinate activities of the enterprise or
organisation concerning government  administrative and other
operations, public or private education services,  health and
social work services, recreational, cultural, and sporting events

and services, and operations of extra-territorial organisations
and bodies.

      In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating government operations
      concerning public service activities, such as control of
      the money supply or taxation schemes, various government
      business regulations, as well as civil service
      administration and related activities;

(b)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of foreign affairs and
      public order and safety activities;

(c)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of government-funded
      social security schemes;

(d)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      public or private education;

(e)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      health and social services;

(f)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      recreational, cultural and sporting operations and events;

(g)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the operations of extra-territorial organisations and
      bodies;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

Dean

Department manager, production and operations/extra-
         territorial organisations

Department manager, production and operations/health

Department manager, production and operations/recreation

Head teacher


Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, education - 1319

General manager, recreation - 1319

Managing director, enterprise/health 1210

Managing director, organisation/extraterritorial
         organisations - 1210


1210  DIRECTORS AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES 
      Directors and chief executives head enterprises or
organisations (except  special interest organisations) and, with
the help of at least two other managers, determine and formulate
policies and plan, direct and  coordinate the general functioning
of the enterprise or organisation usually  within the guidelines
set up by a board of directors or a governing body, to  whom they
are answerable for the operations undertaken and results
obtained.

      Tasks include -

(a)   determining and formulating policies of the enterprise or
      organisation;

(b)   planning, directing and coordinating the general
      functioning of the enterprise or organisation;

(c)   determining and directing a particular policy, through
      consultation with subordinate managers;

(d)   reviewing the operations and results of the enterprise, or
      organisation, and reporting to governing bodies;

(e)   representing the enterprise or organisation in its dealings
      with outside bodies, including government or other
      authorities;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Chief executive, enterprise

Director-general, enterprise

Director-general, organisation

Managing director, enterprise

Managing director, organisation

President, organisation

7341  COMPOSITORS, TYPESETTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Compositors, typesetters and related workers set and arrange
printing  type by hand or machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting type by hand and printing copies with simple
     machines;

(b)  operating linotype, monotype and typecasting machines;

(c)  arranging set-up of type and spacing material and
     illustration blocks to make pages;

(d)  arranging pages in sequence for printing;

(e)  operating electronic key-boarding machines which enable
     characters to be converted into film, sensitised tape or
     paper for subsequent photo plate-making;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Compositor, printing
  Printer
  Typesetter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Press-operator, printing/cylinder 8251

7346  SILK-SCREEN, BLOCK AND TEXTILE PRINTERS
 
 

     Silk-screen, block and textile printers cut stencils for use
in  silk-screen printing and print on paper, metal, textiles and
other materials  with silk-screens, blocks of rubber, wood or
other materials, or engraved  printing rollers.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting stencils for silk-screen printing;

(b)  printing on paper, metal, textiles and other materials by
     silk-screen process;

(c)  printing designs and patterns on cloth or wallpaper with
     engraved blocks or machines equipped with engraved rollers;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cutter, stencil/silk-screen
  Printer, block
  Printer, silk-screen
  Printer, textile

7344  PHOTOGRAPHIC AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Photographic and related workers develop and process
photographic film  and make prints or slides.

     Tasks include -

(a)  processing black and white or colour film and plates to
     obtain negatives or transparent positives;

(b)  printing black and white or colour photographs;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Darkroom worker, film developing/colour photography
  Developer, film/colour
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, film developing 8224

7341  COMPOSITORS, TYPESETTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Compositors, typesetters and related workers set and arrange
printing  type by hand or machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting type by hand and printing copies with simple
     machines;

(b)  operating linotype, monotype and typecasting machines;

(c)  arranging set-up of type and spacing material and
     illustration blocks to make pages;

(d)  arranging pages in sequence for printing;

(e)  operating electronic key-boarding machines which enable
     characters to be converted into film, sensitised tape or
     paper for subsequent photo plate-making;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Compositor, printing
  Printer
  Typesetter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Press-operator, printing/cylinder 8251

7343  PRINTING ENGRAVERS AND ETCHERS
 

     Printing engravers and etchers engrave lithographic stones
and printing  plates, rollers, dies and blocks by various
processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting designs through film applied to surface of
     lithographic stones;

(b)  engraving steel and copper plates, rollers, dies or wood,
     rubber and linoleum blocks by hand;

(c)  engraving metal plates and rollers by machine;

(d)  transferring designs from lithographic stone to metal
     plates;

(e)  performing all or several tasks in preparing printing plates
     by photogravure process;

(f)  etching metal plates or rollers with acid and retouching;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Engraver, printing/lithographic stone
  Engraver, printing/metal plate
  Etcher, printing/metal plate
  Photo-engraver
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Designer, graphic - 3471

7344  PHOTOGRAPHIC AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Photographic and related workers develop and process
photographic film  and make prints or slides.

     Tasks include -

(a)  processing black and white or colour film and plates to
     obtain negatives or transparent positives;

(b)  printing black and white or colour photographs;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Darkroom worker, film developing/colour photography
  Developer, film/colour
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, film developing 8224

7346  SILK-SCREEN, BLOCK AND TEXTILE PRINTERS
 
 

     Silk-screen, block and textile printers cut stencils for use
in  silk-screen printing and print on paper, metal, textiles and
other materials  with silk-screens, blocks of rubber, wood or
other materials, or engraved  printing rollers.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting stencils for silk-screen printing;

(b)  printing on paper, metal, textiles and other materials by
     silk-screen process;

(c)  printing designs and patterns on cloth or wallpaper with
     engraved blocks or machines equipped with engraved rollers;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cutter, stencil/silk-screen
  Printer, block
  Printer, silk-screen
  Printer, textile

3450  POLICE INSPECTORS AND DETECTIVES
 
     Police inspectors and detectives investigate facts and
circumstances  relating to crimes committed and obtain
information not readily available or  apparent concerning
establishments or the circumstances and behaviour of  persons,
mostly in order to prevent crimes.
     
     Tasks include -

(a)   establishing contacts and sources of information about
      crimes planned or committed, in order to prevent crimes or
      identify culprits;

(b)   investigating events and circumstances suspected of being
      criminal in nature to obtain evidence and identify the
      perpetrators;

(c)   establishing contacts and sources of information not
      readily available or apparent concerning establishments or
      the circumstances and behaviour of persons, usually with
      the aim of preventing a crime:

(d)   investigating possible cases of theft of goods, money or
      information from business establishments and of other
      possible cases of unlawful behaviour by customers or
      employees;

(e)   investigating establishments or other circumstances and
      behaviour of persons on behalf of legal authorities or
      clients;

(f)   making arrests or assisting in making arrests, if
      authorised;

(g)   testifying in court of law or reporting to superiors or
      clients about circumstances and results of investigations;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Agent, inquiry/police
  Detective
  Inspector, police

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Inspector-general, police - 1120
  Commissioner, police - 1120
  Police officer - 5162

3460  SOCIAL WORK ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
      Social work associate professionals provide guidance to
clients in social and related matters to enable them to find and
use resources to overcome difficulties and achieve particular
goals.      Tasks include:

(a)   helping individuals and families with personal and social
      problems;

(b)   collecting information relevant to clients' needs and
      advising them on their rights and obligations;

(c)   analysing the client's situation and presenting alternative
      approaches to resolving problems;

(d)   compiling case records or reports for court and other legal
      proceedings;

(e)   planning, evaluating, improving and developing welfare
      services;

(f)   working to prevent development of delinquency or to achieve
      rehabilitation of delinquents by organising and supervising
      social, recreational and educational activities in youth
      clubs, community centres and similar organisations, or by
      other means;

(g)   helping physically or mentally handicapped persons to
      obtain adequate treatment and improve their ability to
      function in society;

(h)   planning, organising or providing home-help services;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Social worker, associate professional
  Social worker, associate professional/enterprise
  Welfare worker, associate professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Social worker, professional - 2446
  Social worker, professional/enterprise - 2446
  Welfare worker, professional -2446

2446  SOCIAL WORK PROFESSIONALS 
     Social work professionals provide guidance to clients in
social and  related matters to enable them to find and use
resources to overcome  difficulties and achieve particular goals.

     Tasks include

(a)   helping individuals and families with personal and social
      problems;

(b)   collecting information relevant to clients' needs and
      advising them on their rights and obligations;

(c)   analysing the client's situation and presenting alternative
      approaches to resolving problems;

(d)   compiling case records or reports for courts and other
      legal proceedings;

(e)   planning, evaluating, improving and developing welfare
      services;

(f)   working to prevent development of delinquency or to achieve
      rehabilitation of delinquents by organising and supervising
      social, recreational and educational activities in youth
      clubs, community centres and similar organisations, or by
      other means;

(g)   helping physically or mentally handicapped persons to
      obtain adequate treatment and improve their ability to
      function in society;

(h)   planning, organising or providing home-help services;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Social worker, professional
  Social worker, professional/enterprise
  Welfare worker, professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Social worker, associate professional - 3460
  Social worker, associate professional/enterprise - 3460
  Welfare worker, associate professional - 3460

1229  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED 
      This unit group covers department managers not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 122, Production and operations
department managers.

      For instance here should be classified those who plan,
direct and  coordinate activities of the enterprise or
organisation concerning government  administrative and other
operations, public or private education services,  health and
social work services, recreational, cultural, and sporting events

and services, and operations of extra-territorial organisations
and bodies.

      In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating government operations
      concerning public service activities, such as control of
      the money supply or taxation schemes, various government
      business regulations, as well as civil service
      administration and related activities;

(b)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of foreign affairs and
      public order and safety activities;

(c)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of government-funded
      social security schemes;

(d)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      public or private education;

(e)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      health and social services;

(f)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      recreational, cultural and sporting operations and events;

(g)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the operations of extra-territorial organisations and
      bodies;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

Dean

Department manager, production and operations/extra-
         territorial organisations

Department manager, production and operations/health

Department manager, production and operations/recreation

Head teacher


Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, education - 1319

General manager, recreation - 1319

Managing director, enterprise/health 1210

Managing director, organisation/extraterritorial
         organisations - 1210


2310  COLLEGE, UNIVERSITY AND HIGHER EDUCATION TEACHING
PROFESSIONALS 
     College, university and higher education teaching
professionals teach  their subjects at some or all levels after
the termination of secondary  education, conduct research and
improve or develop concepts, theories and  operational methods,
and prepare scholarly papers and books.

     Tasks include -

(a)   designing and modifying curricula and preparing courses of
      study in accordance with requirements;

(b)   delivering lectures and conducting tutorials, seminars and
      laboratory experiments;

(c)   stimulating discussion and independent thought among
      students;

(d)   supervising, where appropriate, experimental and practical
      work undertaken by students;

(e)   administering, evaluating and marking examination papers
      and tests;

(f)   directing research of post-graduate students or other
      members of department;

(g)   researching into and developing concepts, theories and
      operational methods for application in industrial and other
      fields;

(h)   preparing scholarly books, papers or articles;

(i)   attending conferences and seminars;

(j)   participating in decision-making processes concerning
      college or university departmental, budgetary and other
      policy matters;

(k)   assisting with extra-curricular activities, such as
      debating societies;

(l)   performing related tasks;

(m)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Lecturer, college
  Lecturer, university
  Professor, college
  Professor, university
  Reader, university

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Chancellor, university - 1210
  Dean - 1229
  Head, college faculty - 1229

2132  COMPUTER PROGRAMMERS 
     Computer programmers write, test and maintain computer
programs to meet  the needs of users of computer systems.

     Tasks include:

(a)   studying program intent, output requirements, nature and
      sources of input data, internal checks and other controls
      required in consultation with Computer systems designers
      and analysts and subject-matter specialists-.

(b)   preparing detailed logical workflow charts and diagrams and
      establishing sequence of steps for data input and computer
      processing operations;

(c)   writing and providing detailed documentation of computer
      programs in a machine code, assembler, or high-level
      language such as PL/l, COBOL, FORTRAN, PASCAL, BASIC or C,
      based when necessary on specifications provided by Computer
      systems designers and analysts, and testing programs to
      eliminate errors-.

(d)   maintaining computer programs and their documentation to
      take account of changed input or output specifications or
      hardware configurations;
 
(e)   performing related tasks-.

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Programmer
  Programmer, communications
  Programmer, database

3132  BROADCASTING AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT OPERATORS 
     Broadcasting and telecommunications equipment operators
control technical  functioning of equipment for transmitting
radio and television broadcasts of  prerecorded or live images
and sounds, as well as other types of telecommunications signals
on land and sea or in aircraft.
     
     Tasks include -

(a)   controlling transmitting and broadcasting systems and
      satellite systems for radio and television programmes;

(b)   controlling radio communications systems, satellite
      services and multiplex systems on land and sea and in
      aircraft;

(c)   controlling cinema projection equipment;

(d)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of
      broadcasting, telecommunications terminals and transmission
      systems, in order to identify and solve problems arising
in
      the course of their work and maintain equipment;

(e)   keeping logs of operations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, broadcasting equipment/ radio
  Operator, telecommunications equipment
  Operator, transmitting equipment/television

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Mechanic, electronics - 7243
  Technician, engineering/telecommunications - 3114

3429  BUSINESS SERVICES AGENTS AND TRADE BROKERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers business services agents and trade
brokers not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 342.  Business
services agents and trade  brokers.     For instance, here should be classified those who establish
business  contacts, sell business services such as advertising
space in the media,  transport services, and other facilities,
credit and other business  information, arrange contracts for
performances of athletes, entertainers and  artists, as well as
for the publication of books, the production of plays, or  the
recording, performing and sale of music.     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   obtaining information about services to be sold and needs
      of prospective buyers'.

(b)   negotiating contracts on behalf of seller or buyer and
      explaining terms of sale and payment to client;

(c)   signing agreements on behalf of seller or buyer and
      ensuring that contract is honoured ;

(d)   making sure that the business service purchased is made
      available to the buyer in the agreed format the agreed
      time;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Agent, literary
  Agent, musical performance
  Agent, sports
  Agent, theatrical
  Salesperson, business services/advertising

7341  COMPOSITORS, TYPESETTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Compositors, typesetters and related workers set and arrange
printing  type by hand or machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting type by hand and printing copies with simple
     machines;

(b)  operating linotype, monotype and typecasting machines;

(c)  arranging set-up of type and spacing material and
     illustration blocks to make pages;

(d)  arranging pages in sequence for printing;

(e)  operating electronic key-boarding machines which enable
     characters to be converted into film, sensitised tape or
     paper for subsequent photo plate-making;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Compositor, printing
  Printer
  Typesetter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Press-operator, printing/cylinder 8251

4143  CODING, PROOF-READING, AND RELATED CLERKS
 
     Coding, proof-reading, and related clerks convert
information into codes,  verify and correct proofs, and perform
a number of miscellaneous clerical  duties.
     Tasks include -

(a)  converting information into codes and classifying
     information by codes for data-processing purposes;
(b)  comparing proofs of texts and related material prepared for
     printing with original material, correcting errors and
     marking texts for printer according to the established
     rules;
(c)  sorting forms and marking them with identification numbers;
(d)  sorting documents for filing or to collate sets of pages;
(e)  addressing circulars and envelopes by hand;
(f)  performing related tasks;
(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, coding
  Proof-reader, clerical

7343  PRINTING ENGRAVERS AND ETCHERS
 

     Printing engravers and etchers engrave lithographic stones
and printing  plates, rollers, dies and blocks by various
processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting designs through film applied to surface of
     lithographic stones;

(b)  engraving steel and copper plates, rollers, dies or wood,
     rubber and linoleum blocks by hand;

(c)  engraving metal plates and rollers by machine;

(d)  transferring designs from lithographic stone to metal
     plates;

(e)  performing all or several tasks in preparing printing plates
     by photogravure process;

(f)  etching metal plates or rollers with acid and retouching;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Engraver, printing/lithographic stone
  Engraver, printing/metal plate
  Etcher, printing/metal plate
  Photo-engraver
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Designer, graphic - 3471

2451  AUTHORS, JOURNALISTS AND OTHER WRITERS 
     Authors, journalists and other writers write literary works
for  publication or presentation in dramatic form, appraise
merits of artistic  productions, or literary and other works of
art, or write and edit news,  stories and commentaries.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing literary works for publication or
      presentation in dramatic form;

(b)   writing scripts and continuities and preparing programmes
      for stage, film, radio and television productions;

(c)   appraising and writing about merits of literary, musical
      and other works of art, and about artistic performances;

(d)   collecting, reporting and commenting on news and current
      affairs for publication in newspapers and periodicals, or
      for broadcasting by radio or television;

(e)   interviewing politicians and other public figures at press
      conferences and on other occasions, including individual
      interviews recorded for radio or television;

(f)   writing editorials and selecting, revising, arranging and
      editing submitted articles and other material for
      publication in newspapers and periodicals;

(g)   appraising manuscripts submitted for publication in book
      form, making recommendations thereon and editing or
      supervising editing of the material;

(h)   writing advertising copy promoting particular products or
      services;

(i)   selecting, assembling and preparing publicity material
      about business or other organisations for issue through
      press, radio, television and other media;

(j)   designing and writing brochures, handbooks and similar
      technical publications;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Author
  Copywriter, advertising
  Critic
  Editor
  Journalist
  Writer, technical

3225  DENTAL ASSISTANTS 
     Dental assistants carry out advisory, diagnostic, preventive
and curative  dental tasks, more limited in scope and complexity
than those carried out by  Dentists, and they assist Dentists by
preparing and taking care of instruments  and other equipment,
preparing materials and helping patients prepare for  examination
and treatment.

     Tasks include -


(a)   advising communities and individuals on dental hygiene,
      diet  and other preventive dental measures;

(b)   conducting dental examinations to make diagnoses and refer
      more difficult cases to Dentists when needed;

(c)   cleaning teeth, preparing cavities and placing fillings;

(d)   performing certain types of prosthetic work and some
      surgical procedures;

(e)   preparing and taking care of dental instruments and
      equipment;

(f)   preparing dental materials;

(g)   helping patients prepare for examination or treatment;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Assistant, dental
  Assistant, dental/school service
  Hygienist, dental

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Aid, dental - 5132
  Mechanic, dental - 7311

2421  LAWYERS 
   
     Lawyers give clients legal advice on a wide variety Of
subjects and plead  cases or conduct prosecutions in courts of
justice, or instruct barristers or  advocates to plead in higher
courts of justice.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research on legal theories and principles and
      their relationship to specific laws or court judgements;

(b)   drafting legislation and preparing government regulations
      based on existing laws;

(c)   giving clients - including the Government - legal advice
on
      a wide variety of subjects and undertaking legal business
      on clients' behalf;

(d)   assisting clients to negotiate settlements in matters which
      involve legal disputes;

(e)   examining the circumstances of disputes or reported crimes
      to ascertain facts and their legal implications;

(f)   preparing pleadings or cases for plaintiff or defendant and
      conducting them in court;

(g)   representing clients in the lower court or instructing
      barristers or advocates to plead in higher courts of
      justice;

(h)   accepting briefs and pleading in the higher court;

(i)   acting as prosecutor on behalf of the Government in
      criminal cases;

(j)   drawing up legal documents;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Advocate
  Attorney
  Barrister
  Lawyer
  Prosecutor
  Solicitor

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Clerk, conveyancing - 3432
  Clerk, law - 3432

2222  DENTISTS 
     Dentists conduct research, improve or develop concepts,
theories and  operational methods, and apply medical knowledge
in the field of dentistry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research into dental and related disorders and
      illnesses and preventive or curative methods;

(b)   making diagnoses, advising on and giving necessary dental
      treatment;

(c)   giving surgical, medical and other forms of treatment for
      particular types of dental and oral diseases and disorders;

(d)   participating in public action to maintain or improve
      standards of oral health and dental care:

(e)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(f)   performing related tasks,

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Dentist
  Dentist, pedodontistry
  Surgeon, oral/dentistry

7343  PRINTING ENGRAVERS AND ETCHERS
 

     Printing engravers and etchers engrave lithographic stones
and printing  plates, rollers, dies and blocks by various
processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting designs through film applied to surface of
     lithographic stones;

(b)  engraving steel and copper plates, rollers, dies or wood,
     rubber and linoleum blocks by hand;

(c)  engraving metal plates and rollers by machine;

(d)  transferring designs from lithographic stone to metal
     plates;

(e)  performing all or several tasks in preparing printing plates
     by photogravure process;

(f)  etching metal plates or rollers with acid and retouching;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Engraver, printing/lithographic stone
  Engraver, printing/metal plate
  Etcher, printing/metal plate
  Photo-engraver
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Designer, graphic - 3471

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

6141  FORESTRY WORKERS AND LOGGERS
 
     Forestry workers and loggers carry out the necessary
operations to  cultivate, conserve and exploit forests, for sale
or delivery of forestry  products on a regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a) establishing and caring for forest stands;

(b)  locating trees to be felled and estimating volume of timber;

(c)  trimming, topping and felling trees and sawing them into
     logs;

(d)  shaping rough wooden products from logs at felling site;

(e)  stacking logs, loading them in chutes or floating them down
     rivers;

(f)  keeping watch to detect forest fires and participating in
     firefighting operations;

(g)  delivering or marketing forestry products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Climber, logging
  Cruiser, timber
  Feller-bucker, tree
  Forestry worker, skilled
  Logger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/forestry
        - 1221
  General manager, forestry - 1311
  Labourer, forestry - 9212
  Managing director, enterprise/forestry - 1210
  Operator, forestry machinery - 8331

2221  MEDICAL DOCTORS 
     Medical doctors conduct research, improve or develop
concepts, theories  and operational methods, and apply preventive
or curative measures.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research into human disorders and illnesses and
      preventive or curative methods;

(b)   conducting medical examinations and making diagnoses;

(c)   prescribing and giving treatment for diagnosed illnesses,
      disorders or injuries;

(d)   giving specialised medical or surgical treatment for
      particular types of illnesses, disorders or injuries;

(e)   giving advice on and applying preventive medicine methods
      and treatments;

(f)   participating in the development and implementation of
      public health laws and regulations for safeguarding and
      promoting the health of a community;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Doctor, medical
  Ophthalmologist
  Physician
  Psychiatrist
  Surgeon

2445  PSYCHOLOGISTS 
     Psychologists research into and study mental processes and
behaviour of  human beings as individuals or in groups, and apply
this knowledge to promote  personal, social, educational or
occupational adjustment and development.

     Tasks include -

(a)   planning and carrying out tests to measure mental, physical
      and other characteristics such as intelligence, abilities,
      aptitudes, potentialities, etc., interpreting and
      evaluating results, and providing advice;

(b)   analysing the effect of heredity, social, occupational and
      other factors on individual thought and behaviour;


(c)   conducting counselling or therapeutic interviews with
      individuals and groups, and providing follow-up services;

(d)   maintaining required contacts, such as those with family
      members, educational authorities or employers, and
      recommending possible solutions to, and treatment of,
      problems;

(e)   studying psychological factors in the diagnosis, treatment
      and prevention of mental illnesses and emotional or
      personality disorders, and conferring with related
      professionals;

(f)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Psychologist

4144  SCRIBES AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Scribes and related workers write letters and complete forms
on behalf of  illiterate persons.
     Tasks include -

(a)  reading letters and other written matter to illiterate
     persons and providing necessary interpretation and
     information;
(b)  writing letters and completing forms on behalf of illiterate
     persons;
(c)  offering advice to individuals and interpreting and helping
     with the completion of government and other official forms;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Scribe

2419  BUSINESS PROFESSIONALS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers business professionals not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 241, Business professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  studying, advising on and applying operational
methods relating to various  aspects of business undertakings,
such as marketing, advertising, public  relations, application
of rules concerning patents, or steps to be taken in  setting up
and running a business, and home economics principles.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   conducting research and determining or advising on existing
      level of sales for particular products or services, and
      assessing potential markets and future trends;

(b)   planning, advising on or directing and coordinating
      production of advertising campaigns;

(c)   studying, advising on and conducting public relations
      programmes with a view to improving the public's knowledge
      and understanding of the enterprise or establishment in
      question;

(d)   giving advice concerning patents and assisting in preparing
      applications or examining applications submitted for
      registration, and writing reports setting out reasons for
      or against the granting of a patent;

(e)   studying and advising on financial, legal, organisational,
      marketing and other aspects connected with setting up and
      running a business;

(f)   studying, interpreting and informing about and advising on
      principles of home economics and management with a view to
      promoting welfare of families, as well as the consumption
      of household goods, or the promotion of new products;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Account executive, advertising
  Analyst, market research
  Home economist
  Officer, public relations
  Patent agent

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Company secretary - 1231

7441  PELT DRESSERS, TANNERS AND FELLMONGERS
 

     Pelt dressers, tanners and fellmongers prepare fur- and
wool-bearing  pelts for making garments and other products, and
make leather from hides and  skins.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sorting and grading pelts, hides and skins;

(b)  removing flesh and fat from pelts before curing;

(c)  removing flesh and hair from hides;

(d)  removing long, coarse hair from pelts and trimming
     underlying hair to even length;

(e)  operating machine to split hides edgeways;

(f)  treating hides to convert them into leather;

(g)  applying dyes to fur pelts;

(h)  dressing and applying dyes and stains to leather;

(i)  stretching and smoothing dressed pelts;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fellmonger
  Grader, pelt
  Tanner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, tanning - 8265

3474  CLOWNS, MAGICIANS, ACROBATS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS
 
     Clowns, magicians, acrobats and related associate
professionals entertain  audiences in circuses and other places
by performing a variety of acts.   
   
     Tasks include -

(a)   performing amusing antics and telling funny stories;

(b)   performing tricks of illusion and sleight of hand, and
      feats of hypnotism;

(c)   performing difficult and spectacular acrobatics, and
      gymnastic or juggling feats:

(d)   training and performing with animals;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Acrobat	
  Aerialist
  Clown
  Hypnotist
  Magician

3416  BUYERS 
     Buyers buy goods and services on behalf of industrial,
commercial or  other enterprises and organisations.     Tasks include -

(a)   negotiating and contracting for the purchase of equipment,
      raw materials, products and supplies for industrial plant,
      utilities, government units or other establishments and the
      purchasing of merchandise for resale;

(b)   obtaining information about requirements and stock, and
      determining quantity and quality to be purchased, costs,
      delivery dates and other contract conditions;

(c)   performing related tasks;

(d)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Buyer
  Buyer, merchandise/retail trade
  Buyer, merchandise/wholesale trade

5111  TRAVEL ATTENDANTS AND TRAVEL STEWARDS
 
     Travel attendants and travel stewards render personal
services to ensure  the comfort and safety of passengers, serve
meals and beverages, or plan and  coordinate housekeeping and
social activities on ships.

     Tasks include -

(a)  greeting passengers entering aircraft, conducting them to
     their seats, ensuring that seat-belts are fastened and -no
     smoking" and similar signs are obeyed;

(b)  explaining the use of safety equipment such as life belts
     and oxygen masks;

(c)  distributing reading material, headphones, blankets and
     similar items, and answering passengers' inquiries;

(d)  serving pre-prepared meals as well as beverages;

(e)  selling duty-free goods;

(f)  administering minor medical aid to passengers in need;

(g)  taking appropriate action in case of emergencies or
     accidents;

(h)  taking care of passengers at airports;

(i)  taking care of general needs and comfort of ship's
     passengers, including keeping cabins tidy and serving meals
     in them, on request;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Attendant, airport
  Attendant, flight
  Steward, ship

1231  FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION DEPARTMENT MANAGERS 
      Finance and administration department managers plan, direct
and  coordinate the internal administration or financial
operations of the  enterprise or organisation, under the broad
guidance of the directors and  chief executives, and in
consultation with managers of other departments or  sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating the internal
      administration or financial operations of the enterprise or
      organisation;

(b)   assessing the financial situation of the enterprise or
      organisation, preparing budgets and overseeing various
      financial operations;

(c)   controlling expenditure and ensuring the efficient use of
      resources;

(d)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(e)   planning and directing daily operations;

(f)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(g)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the organisation or with outside bodies;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Department manager, administration

Department manager, finance

3152  SAFETY, HEALTH AND QUALITY INSPECTORS 
     Safety, health and quality inspectors, on behalf of the
government or  industrial and other enterprises, inspect places
of work on the grounds of  occupational safety, and safety of
production processes, or of goods produced,  used or sold, and
ensure compliance with health and environment protection  rules
and regulations, as well as with the quality standards and 
specifications of manufacturers.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising employers' and workers' representatives on the
      implementation of government and other rules and
      regulations concerning occupational safety and the working
      environment;

(b)   inspecting places of work to ensure that the working
      environment, machinery and equipment conform to government
      and other rules, regulations and standards;

(c)   inspecting places of work and, by interviews, observations
      and other means, obtaining facts about work practices and
      accidents to determine compliance with safety rules and
      regulations;

(d)   inspecting areas of production, processing, transport,
      handling, storage and sale of products to ensure conformity
      with government and other rules, regulations and standards;

(e)   inspecting finished products or parts for conformity with
      manufacturers' specifications and standards;

(f)   advising enterprises and the general public on the
      implementation of government and other rules and
      regulations concerning hygiene, sanitation, purity and
      grading of primary products, food, drugs, cosmetics and
      similar goods;

(g)   advising producers, operators and those maintaining and
      repairing aircraft, cars and other vehicles on the
      implementation of government and other rules and
      regulations concerning technical standards and conditions
      of vehicles;

(h)   inspecting vehicles and places authorised to maintain and
      repair vehicles to ensure that they conform to technical
      standards and government and other regulations;

(i)   inspecting establishments to ensure that they conform to
      government and other rules and regulations concerning
      emission of pollutants and disposal of dangerous wastes;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Inspector, occupational safety
  Inspector, quality/products
  Inspector, safety and health/consumer protection
  Inspector, safety and health/pollution

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Inspector, sanitary - 3222
  Inspector, wage - 3449

7111  MINERS AND QUARRY WORKERS
 

     Miners and quarry workers extract solid minerals from
underground or  surface mines or quarries.

     Tasks include -

(a)  extracting coal, ores and other solid minerals from
     underground or surface mines;

(b)  extracting granite, limestone, slate, flint or other kinds
     of rocks from quarries;

(c)  setting and operating machines which cut channels or drill
     blasting holes into the open face of mines or quarries;

(d)  cutting, fitting and installing wood or steel props, pillars
     and arches to support walls and roof of underground
     workings;

(e)  collecting samples of coal or ore for laboratory analysis;

(f)  extracting chalk, clay, gravel or sand from open pits;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Miner
  Quarrier
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, drilling/mine - 8111
  Machine-operator, mining/continuous - 8111

2460  RELIGIOUS PROFESSIONALS 
      
     Religious professionals function as perpetrators of the
sacred  traditions, practices and beliefs and celebrate or
administer at the rituals  of initiation, preside over ritual
reenactments of creative, redemptive or  salvatory events, and
offer sacrifices to the gods or to one God.

     Tasks include -

(a)   perpetuating sacred traditions, practices and beliefs;

(d)   conducting religious services, rites and ceremonies;

(c)   undertaking various administrative and social duties,
      including a ending committees and meetings of religious
      organisations;

(d)   providing spiritual and moral guidance in accordance with
      the religion professed;

(e)   propagating religious doctrines in own country or abroad;

(f)   preparing religious sermons and preachings;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bonze
  Imam
  Minister, religion
  Monk, professional
  Nun, professional
  Poojari
  Priest
  Rabbi

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Monk, associate professional - 3480
  Nun, associate professional - 3480
  Preacher, lay - 3480

3475  ATHLETES, SPORTSPERSONS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Athletes, sportspersons and related associate professionals
participate  in competitive sporting events, conduct sports
training, compile rules  concerning sporting events, and control
the progress of these events.     Tasks include -

(a)   participating in competitive sporting events;

(b)   conducting sports training to develop ability in and
      knowledge of the sport;

(c)   compiling rules concerning the conduct of sporting
      competitions, and controlling the progress of these events;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Athlete
  Boxer
  Coach, sports
  Official, sports
  Wrestler

2221  MEDICAL DOCTORS 
     Medical doctors conduct research, improve or develop
concepts, theories  and operational methods, and apply preventive
or curative measures.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research into human disorders and illnesses and
      preventive or curative methods;

(b)   conducting medical examinations and making diagnoses;

(c)   prescribing and giving treatment for diagnosed illnesses,
      disorders or injuries;

(d)   giving specialised medical or surgical treatment for
      particular types of illnesses, disorders or injuries;

(e)   giving advice on and applying preventive medicine methods
      and treatments;

(f)   participating in the development and implementation of
      public health laws and regulations for safeguarding and
      promoting the health of a community;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Doctor, medical
  Ophthalmologist
  Physician
  Psychiatrist
  Surgeon

6121  DAIRY AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS
 
     Dairy and livestock producers plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed,  raise and tend livestock such
as cattle, sheep, pigs, goats,  horses, dogs or cats to be used
as working, sporting, or pet animals, as well  as for meat, milk,
hair, hides and other products, for sale or delivery on a 
regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of livestock and livestock
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing animals, producing and purchasing fodder and
     other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in grazing land, buildings, equipment
     and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending livestock;

(e)  milking animals and shearing sheep;

(f)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market;

(g)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(h)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(i)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, cat
  Breeder, dog
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock
  Farmer, dairy
  Farmer, horse raising
  Farmer, livestock
  Farmer, sheep
  Farmer, sheep/astrakhan
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6129  MARKET-ORIENTED ANIMAL PRODUCERS AND RELATED WORKERS NOT
ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED

 
     This unit group covers market-oriented animal producers and
related  workers not classified elsewhere in Minor group 612,
Market-oriented animal  producers and related workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  breeding, raising and tending wild mammals, game
birds and other birds,  snails, non-domesticated fur-giving
animals, snakes and other reptiles, as well  as various insects
and animals used for laboratory tests, for sale or delivery  on
a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations,
zoos and  circuses, or at markets. Here should also be classified
those who look after  or train animals in animal reserves,
stables, zoos, circuses, research  organisations, animal homes,
and similar institutions.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  buying or setting up necessary buildings, open or sheltered
     space, equipment, etc., and maintaining them;

(b)  determining kinds and amounts of animals to be raised;

(c)  purchasing animals, growing or purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(d)  breeding, raising, feeding and tending animals;

(e)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market

(f)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(g)  protecting animals, especially in animal reserves;

(h)  training animals for racing, circus performances and the
     like;

(i)  delivering or marketing products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, bird
  Breeder, game bird
  Breeder, laboratory animal/mice
  Breeder, lion
  Breeder, snail
  Farmer, fur/non-domesticated animals
  Keeper, animal reserve
  Keeper, zoo
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Game-warden - 5169

6121  DAIRY AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS
 
     Dairy and livestock producers plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed,  raise and tend livestock such
as cattle, sheep, pigs, goats,  horses, dogs or cats to be used
as working, sporting, or pet animals, as well  as for meat, milk,
hair, hides and other products, for sale or delivery on a 
regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of livestock and livestock
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing animals, producing and purchasing fodder and
     other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in grazing land, buildings, equipment
     and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending livestock;

(e)  milking animals and shearing sheep;

(f)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market;

(g)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(h)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(i)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, cat
  Breeder, dog
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock
  Farmer, dairy
  Farmer, horse raising
  Farmer, livestock
  Farmer, sheep
  Farmer, sheep/astrakhan
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6123  APIARISTS AND SERICULTURISTS
 
     Apiarists and sericulturists plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed, raise and tend insects such as
honey bees, silkworms or other  species, for sale or delivery of
honey, beeswax, silk cocoons, etc., on a  regular basis to
wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of insect products to be
     produced-,

(b)  purchasing insects, growing or purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending insects and collecting their
     products;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  maintaining buildings, machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Apiarist
  Apiary worker, skilled
  Sericulturist
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6121  DAIRY AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS
 
     Dairy and livestock producers plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed,  raise and tend livestock such
as cattle, sheep, pigs, goats,  horses, dogs or cats to be used
as working, sporting, or pet animals, as well  as for meat, milk,
hair, hides and other products, for sale or delivery on a 
regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of livestock and livestock
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing animals, producing and purchasing fodder and
     other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in grazing land, buildings, equipment
     and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending livestock;

(e)  milking animals and shearing sheep;

(f)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market;

(g)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(h)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(i)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, cat
  Breeder, dog
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock
  Farmer, dairy
  Farmer, horse raising
  Farmer, livestock
  Farmer, sheep
  Farmer, sheep/astrakhan
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

6141  FORESTRY WORKERS AND LOGGERS
 
     Forestry workers and loggers carry out the necessary
operations to  cultivate, conserve and exploit forests, for sale
or delivery of forestry  products on a regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a) establishing and caring for forest stands;

(b)  locating trees to be felled and estimating volume of timber;

(c)  trimming, topping and felling trees and sawing them into
     logs;

(d)  shaping rough wooden products from logs at felling site;

(e)  stacking logs, loading them in chutes or floating them down
     rivers;

(f)  keeping watch to detect forest fires and participating in
     firefighting operations;

(g)  delivering or marketing forestry products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Climber, logging
  Cruiser, timber
  Feller-bucker, tree
  Forestry worker, skilled
  Logger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/forestry
        - 1221
  General manager, forestry - 1311
  Labourer, forestry - 9212
  Managing director, enterprise/forestry - 1210
  Operator, forestry machinery - 8331

2310  COLLEGE, UNIVERSITY AND HIGHER EDUCATION TEACHING
PROFESSIONALS 
     College, university and higher education teaching
professionals teach  their subjects at some or all levels after
the termination of secondary  education, conduct research and
improve or develop concepts, theories and  operational methods,
and prepare scholarly papers and books.

     Tasks include -

(a)   designing and modifying curricula and preparing courses of
      study in accordance with requirements;

(b)   delivering lectures and conducting tutorials, seminars and
      laboratory experiments;

(c)   stimulating discussion and independent thought among
      students;

(d)   supervising, where appropriate, experimental and practical
      work undertaken by students;

(e)   administering, evaluating and marking examination papers
      and tests;

(f)   directing research of post-graduate students or other
      members of department;

(g)   researching into and developing concepts, theories and
      operational methods for application in industrial and other
      fields;

(h)   preparing scholarly books, papers or articles;

(i)   attending conferences and seminars;

(j)   participating in decision-making processes concerning
      college or university departmental, budgetary and other
      policy matters;

(k)   assisting with extra-curricular activities, such as
      debating societies;

(l)   performing related tasks;

(m)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Lecturer, college
  Lecturer, university
  Professor, college
  Professor, university
  Reader, university

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Chancellor, university - 1210
  Dean - 1229
  Head, college faculty - 1229

3413  ESTATE AGENTS 
     Estate agents arrange the sale, purchase, rental and lease
of real  property, usually on behalf of clients and on a
commission basis.     Tasks include -

(a)   obtaining information about properties to be sold or
      leased, the circumstances of their owner and the needs of
      prospective buyers or tenants;

(b)   showing properties to be sold or leased to prospective
      buyers or tenants and explaining terms of sale or
      conditions of rent or lease;

(c)   arranging signing of lease agreements and transfer of
      property rights;

(d)   collecting rent and bond monies on behalf of owner and
      inspecting properties before, during and after tenancies;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Agent, estate
  Realtor
  Salesperson, property

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Clerk, mortgage - 4122

4222  RECEPTIONISTS AND INFORMATION CLERKS
 
     Receptionists and information clerks receive clients or
patients, provide  information and make appointments on behalf
of various establishments  including hospitals, medical or dental
surgeries.
     Tasks include -

(a)  receiving clients or patients, noting inquiries and
     providing relevant information:
(b)  making appointments for clients or patients;
(c)  dealing with telephone requests for information or
     appointments;
(d)  directing clients or patients to appropriate location or
     person;
(e)  making reservations and arranging registration for hotel
     guests or patients, as well as keeping records, or
     presenting bills on departure;
(f)  supplying information pamphlets, brochures or forms;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, information
  Receptionist
  Receptionist, dental
  Receptionist, hotel
  Receptionist, medical

2460  RELIGIOUS PROFESSIONALS 
      
     Religious professionals function as perpetrators of the
sacred  traditions, practices and beliefs and celebrate or
administer at the rituals  of initiation, preside over ritual
reenactments of creative, redemptive or  salvatory events, and
offer sacrifices to the gods or to one God.

     Tasks include -

(a)   perpetuating sacred traditions, practices and beliefs;

(d)   conducting religious services, rites and ceremonies;

(c)   undertaking various administrative and social duties,
      including a ending committees and meetings of religious
      organisations;

(d)   providing spiritual and moral guidance in accordance with
      the religion professed;

(e)   propagating religious doctrines in own country or abroad;

(f)   preparing religious sermons and preachings;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bonze
  Imam
  Minister, religion
  Monk, professional
  Nun, professional
  Poojari
  Priest
  Rabbi

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Monk, associate professional - 3480
  Nun, associate professional - 3480
  Preacher, lay - 3480

3475  ATHLETES, SPORTSPERSONS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Athletes, sportspersons and related associate professionals
participate  in competitive sporting events, conduct sports
training, compile rules  concerning sporting events, and control
the progress of these events.     Tasks include -

(a)   participating in competitive sporting events;

(b)   conducting sports training to develop ability in and
      knowledge of the sport;

(c)   compiling rules concerning the conduct of sporting
      competitions, and controlling the progress of these events;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Athlete
  Boxer
  Coach, sports
  Official, sports
  Wrestler

7412  BAKERS, PASTRY-COOKS AND CONFECTIONERY MAKERS
 

     Bakers, pastry-cooks and confectionery makers make various
kinds of  bread, cakes, and other flour products, as well as
handmade chocolate and  sugar confectionery.

     Tasks include  -

(a)  making bread, cakes, biscuits, pastries, pies and other
     flour products;

(b)  making handmade confectionery from mixtures of sugar,
     chocolate and other ingredients with the help of tools and
     some machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Baker
  Confectioner
  Maker, chocolate
 Pastry-cook
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cook - 5122
  Machine-operator, bakery products 8274
  Machine-operator, bread production 8274
  Machine-operator, chocolate production - 8274

1120  SENIOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS 

      Senior government officials advise governments on policy
matters, oversee the interpretation and implementation of
government policies and legislation  by government departments
and agencies, represent their country abroad and act  on its
behalf, or carry out similar tasks in intergovernmental
organisations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   advising national, state, regional or local governments on
      policy matters;

(b)   advising on the preparation of government budgets, laws and
      regulations, including amendments;

(c)   overseeing the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies and legislation by government
      departments and agencies;

(d)   representing their country abroad;
         
(e)   performing similar tasks in intergovernmental
      organisations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Administrator, government
Administrator, intergovernmental organisation
Ambassador
Consul-general
Secretary, government/non legislative

3480  RELIGIOUS ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Religious associate professionals undertake religious works,
devote their  lives to contemplative prayer or meditation, and
preach and propagate the  teachings of their particular religion.     Tasks include -

(a)   undertaking religious works;

(b)   living as a member of a separate community, and observing
      its rules and practices;

(c)   devoting their lives to contemplative prayer or meditation;

(d)   preaching and propagating the teachings of a particular
      religious faith;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Monk, associate professional
  Nun, associate professional
  Preacher, lay
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Bonze - 2460	
  Imam - 2460
  Minister, religion - 2460
  Monk, professional - 2460
  Nun, professional - 2460
  Poojari - 2460
  Priest - 2460
  Rabbi- 2460

9333  FREIGHT HANDLERS
 

     Freight handlers carry out tasks such as packing, carrying,
loading and  unloading furniture and other household items, or
loading and unloading ship  and aircraft cargoes and other
freight, or carrying and stacking goods in  various warehouses.

     Tasks include -

(a)  packing office or household furniture, machines, appliances
     and related goods to be transported from one place to
     another;

(b)  carrying goods to be loaded on or unloaded from vans,
     trucks, wagons, ships, or aircraft;

(c)  loading and unloading grain, coal, sand and similar goods
     by placing them on conveyor-belts, pipes, etc. ;

(d)  connecting hoses between main shore installation pipes and
     tanks of barges, tankers and other ships to load and unload
     petroleum, liquefied gases and other liquids;

(e)  carrying and stacking goods in warehouses and similar
     establishments;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Handler, freight
Some related occupations classified else where:
  Operator, crane - 8333
  Operator, truck/lifting - 8334

7231  MOTOR VEHICLE MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Motor vehicle mechanics and fitters fit, install, maintain,
service and  repair engines and the mechanical and related
equipment of motor cycles,  passenger cars and delivery trucks
and other motor vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, examining, testing and servicing motor vehicle
     engines;

(b)  replacing engine components or complete engines;

(c)  fitting, examining, adjusting, dismantling, rebuilding and
     replacing defective parts of motor vehicles;

(d)  installing or adjusting motors and brakes, and adjusting
     steering or other parts of motor vehicles;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/motor-vehicle
  Mechanic, garage
  Mechanic, motor-vehicle
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/motor-vehicles - 8281

7129  BUILDING FRAME AND RELATED TRADES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers building frame and related trades
workers not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 712, Building
frame and related trades  workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who perform
miscellaneous  construction and building maintenance tasks.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  performing miscellaneous construction and building
     maintenance work on structures such as office buildings,
     apartment houses, factories and similar establishments in
     good repair;

(b)  performing construction, maintenance or repair work at
     unusual heights;

(c)  erecting temporary metal or wooden scaffolding on building
     sites;

(d)  demolishing buildings and other structures;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Demolition worker
  Housebuilder, non-traditional materials
  Scaffolder
  Steeplejack
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Labourer, construction/buildings 9313
  Labourer, demolition - 9313

7311  PRECISION-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND REPAIRERS

 

     Precision-instrument makers and repairers make and repair
mechanical  watches, clocks, nautical, meteorological, optical,
surgical, dental,  orthopaedic and other precision instruments
and equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, adjusting and repairing mechanical watches and
     clocks;

(b)  making, adjusting and repairing nautical and meteorological
     instruments and equipment;

(c)  making, adjusting and repairing optical instruments;

(d)  making, adjusting and repairing surgical instruments and
     other medical equipment;

(e)  making and repairing medical, orthopaedic and dental
     appliances and prostheses;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/meteorological
  Maker, instrument/surgical
  Maker, orthopaedic appliance
  Maker, watch
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, watch - 8283
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

7129  BUILDING FRAME AND RELATED TRADES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers building frame and related trades
workers not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 712, Building
frame and related trades  workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who perform
miscellaneous  construction and building maintenance tasks.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  performing miscellaneous construction and building
     maintenance work on structures such as office buildings,
     apartment houses, factories and similar establishments in
     good repair;

(b)  performing construction, maintenance or repair work at
     unusual heights;

(c)  erecting temporary metal or wooden scaffolding on building
     sites;

(d)  demolishing buildings and other structures;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Demolition worker
  Housebuilder, non-traditional materials
  Scaffolder
  Steeplejack
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Labourer, construction/buildings 9313
  Labourer, demolition - 9313

7311  PRECISION-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND REPAIRERS

 

     Precision-instrument makers and repairers make and repair
mechanical  watches, clocks, nautical, meteorological, optical,
surgical, dental,  orthopaedic and other precision instruments
and equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, adjusting and repairing mechanical watches and
     clocks;

(b)  making, adjusting and repairing nautical and meteorological
     instruments and equipment;

(c)  making, adjusting and repairing optical instruments;

(d)  making, adjusting and repairing surgical instruments and
     other medical equipment;

(e)  making and repairing medical, orthopaedic and dental
     appliances and prostheses;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/meteorological
  Maker, instrument/surgical
  Maker, orthopaedic appliance
  Maker, watch
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, watch - 8283
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

7241  ELECTRICAL MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Electrical mechanics and fitters fit, adjust, install and
repair  electrical machinery and other electrical apparatus and
equipment in  buildings, factories, workshops, or other places.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, adjusting and repairing various kinds of electrical
     machinery and motors, generators, switchgear and control
     apparatus, instruments, or electrical parts of elevators and
     related equipment;

(b)  fitting, adjusting and repairing electrical parts in
     domestic appliances, industrial machines and other
     appliances, or electrical apparatus in aircraft, ships and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing manufactured electrical products;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Builder, armature
  Fitter, electrical/generator
  Mechanic, electrical
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler electrical equipment - 8282

7243  ELECTRONICS MECHANICS AND SERVICERS
 

     Electronics mechanics and servicers service and repair radio
and  television equipment, tape recorders, video cassette
recorders, and other  audio-visual equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  examining radio or television equipment, tape recorders,
     video cassette recorders, and other audio-visual equipment,
     replacing defective parts and making adjustments and
     repairs;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Erector, radio aerial
  Mechanic, electronics/audiovisual equipment
  Servicer, electronics equipment

7232  AIRCRAFT ENGINE MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Aircraft engine mechanics and fitters fit, service, repair
and overhaul  aircraft engines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, examining, testing and servicing aircraft engines;

(b)  replacing engine components or complete engines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitters engine/aircraft
  Mechanic, engine/aircraft
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, textile machinery - 8281

7432  WEAVERS, KNITTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

  
     Weavers, knitters and related workers spin and wind yarn by
hand, weave  materials on hand looms, make carpets by using a
knotting technique, knit  garment fabrics by hand or hand-
operated machine or perform similar  manufacturing tasks by hand
or hand-operated machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  spinning and winding yarn by hand;

(b)  drawing warp threads into loom by hand;

(c)  weaving plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpet or
     other fabrics on hand looms;

(d)  making carpets by using a knotting technique;

(e)  knitting garments and other articles on hand-operated
     machine or by hand;

(f)  crocheting or making braid by hand;

(g)  making nets by hand;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Knitter
  Spinner, thread and yarn
  Threader, loom
  Weaver, carpet
  Weaver cloth
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, knitting - 8262
  Machine-operator, weaving - 8262

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

7311  PRECISION-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND REPAIRERS

 

     Precision-instrument makers and repairers make and repair
mechanical  watches, clocks, nautical, meteorological, optical,
surgical, dental,  orthopaedic and other precision instruments
and equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, adjusting and repairing mechanical watches and
     clocks;

(b)  making, adjusting and repairing nautical and meteorological
     instruments and equipment;

(c)  making, adjusting and repairing optical instruments;

(d)  making, adjusting and repairing surgical instruments and
     other medical equipment;

(e)  making and repairing medical, orthopaedic and dental
     appliances and prostheses;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/meteorological
  Maker, instrument/surgical
  Maker, orthopaedic appliance
  Maker, watch
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, watch - 8283
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

7312  MUSICAL-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND TUNERS
 

     Musical-instrument makers and tuners make, repair and tune
stringed, wind  or percussion instruments with hand or power
tools.

     Tasks include

(a)  making and repairing accordions, stringed and wind
     instruments;

(b)  building and repairing organs and making parts for such
     organs;

(c)  making instrumental parts of pianos and assembling and
     repairing such pianos;

(d)  tuning organs, pianos and other instruments;

(e)  making and repairing other musical instruments;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/musical (brass)
  Maker, instrument/musical (string)
  Maker, instrument/musical (woodwind)
  Tuner, musical instrument

7311  PRECISION-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND REPAIRERS

 

     Precision-instrument makers and repairers make and repair
mechanical  watches, clocks, nautical, meteorological, optical,
surgical, dental,  orthopaedic and other precision instruments
and equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, adjusting and repairing mechanical watches and
     clocks;

(b)  making, adjusting and repairing nautical and meteorological
     instruments and equipment;

(c)  making, adjusting and repairing optical instruments;

(d)  making, adjusting and repairing surgical instruments and
     other medical equipment;

(e)  making and repairing medical, orthopaedic and dental
     appliances and prostheses;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/meteorological
  Maker, instrument/surgical
  Maker, orthopaedic appliance
  Maker, watch
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, watch - 8283
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

7313  JEWELLERY AND PRECIOUS-METAL WORKERS
 

     Jewellery and precious-metal workers make and repair
jewellery and  precious metalware, cut and set gems and engrave
designs on jewellery and  precious metal articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  casting jewellery and other non-ferrous metal articles by
     hand;

(b)  making complete jewellery articles such as rings, brooches
     and bracelets;

(c)  cutting and polishing gems and setting them in jewellery
     articles;

(d)  making and repairing precious metalware;

(e)  rolling and beating precious metals; engraving letters and
     designs on jewellery and precious metalware;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, jewellery
  Goldsmith
  Jeweller
  Setter, gem
  Silversmith

7231  MOTOR VEHICLE MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Motor vehicle mechanics and fitters fit, install, maintain,
service and  repair engines and the mechanical and related
equipment of motor cycles,  passenger cars and delivery trucks
and other motor vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, examining, testing and servicing motor vehicle
     engines;

(b)  replacing engine components or complete engines;

(c)  fitting, examining, adjusting, dismantling, rebuilding and
     replacing defective parts of motor vehicles;

(d)  installing or adjusting motors and brakes, and adjusting
     steering or other parts of motor vehicles;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/motor-vehicle
  Mechanic, garage
  Mechanic, motor-vehicle
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/motor-vehicles - 8281

7311  PRECISION-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND REPAIRERS

 

     Precision-instrument makers and repairers make and repair
mechanical  watches, clocks, nautical, meteorological, optical,
surgical, dental,  orthopaedic and other precision instruments
and equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, adjusting and repairing mechanical watches and
     clocks;

(b)  making, adjusting and repairing nautical and meteorological
     instruments and equipment;

(c)  making, adjusting and repairing optical instruments;

(d)  making, adjusting and repairing surgical instruments and
     other medical equipment;

(e)  making and repairing medical, orthopaedic and dental
     appliances and prostheses;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/meteorological
  Maker, instrument/surgical
  Maker, orthopaedic appliance
  Maker, watch
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, watch - 8283
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

7231  MOTOR VEHICLE MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Motor vehicle mechanics and fitters fit, install, maintain,
service and  repair engines and the mechanical and related
equipment of motor cycles,  passenger cars and delivery trucks
and other motor vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, examining, testing and servicing motor vehicle
     engines;

(b)  replacing engine components or complete engines;

(c)  fitting, examining, adjusting, dismantling, rebuilding and
     replacing defective parts of motor vehicles;

(d)  installing or adjusting motors and brakes, and adjusting
     steering or other parts of motor vehicles;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/motor-vehicle
  Mechanic, garage
  Mechanic, motor-vehicle
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/motor-vehicles - 8281

7311  PRECISION-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND REPAIRERS

 

     Precision-instrument makers and repairers make and repair
mechanical  watches, clocks, nautical, meteorological, optical,
surgical, dental,  orthopaedic and other precision instruments
and equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, adjusting and repairing mechanical watches and
     clocks;

(b)  making, adjusting and repairing nautical and meteorological
     instruments and equipment;

(c)  making, adjusting and repairing optical instruments;

(d)  making, adjusting and repairing surgical instruments and
     other medical equipment;

(e)  making and repairing medical, orthopaedic and dental
     appliances and prostheses;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/meteorological
  Maker, instrument/surgical
  Maker, orthopaedic appliance
  Maker, watch
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, watch - 8283
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

7224  METAL WHEEL-GRINDERS, POLISHERS AND TOOL SHARPENERS
 

     Metal wheel-grinders, polishers and tool sharpeners grind
and polish  metal surfaces and sharpen tools.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating fixed or portable buffing and polishing machines;

(b)  sharpening cutting tools and instruments using grinding
     wheel or mechanically operated grinding machines;

(c)  repairing, adjusting and sharpening saw blades and metal
     teeth of cylinders in textile carding machines;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Finisher, metal
  Grinder, tool
  Polisher, metal
  Sharpener, knife
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal - 8223
  Machine-operator polishing/metal -8223

7311  PRECISION-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND REPAIRERS

 

     Precision-instrument makers and repairers make and repair
mechanical  watches, clocks, nautical, meteorological, optical,
surgical, dental,  orthopaedic and other precision instruments
and equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, adjusting and repairing mechanical watches and
     clocks;

(b)  making, adjusting and repairing nautical and meteorological
     instruments and equipment;

(c)  making, adjusting and repairing optical instruments;

(d)  making, adjusting and repairing surgical instruments and
     other medical equipment;

(e)  making and repairing medical, orthopaedic and dental
     appliances and prostheses;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/meteorological
  Maker, instrument/surgical
  Maker, orthopaedic appliance
  Maker, watch
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, watch - 8283
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

3431  ADMINISTRATIVE SECRETARIES AND RELATED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS
 
     Administrative secretaries and related associate
professionals implement  and support the communication,
documentation and internal managerial  co-ordination activities
of an organisational unit to assist the head of unit  and other
members of staff, and make verbatim reports of proceedings.     Tasks include -

(a)   drafting administrative correspondence and minutes;

(b)   obtaining, proposing and monitoring deadlines and follow-up
      dates;

(c)   screening requests for meetings, scheduling and organising
      meetings, scheduling and organising meetings and travel
      arrangements for the head of unit and other members of
      staff:

(d)   assisting in the preparation of budgets, monitoring of
      expenditures, drafting of contracts and purchasing or
      acquisition orders;

(e)   assisting the head of unit and other staff with inquiries
      of an administrative or organisational nature;

(f)   assisting the head of unit in organising and hosting
      hospitality functions for outside visitors or members of
      staff;

(g)   making verbatim reports of proceedings in legislative
      assemblies, courts of law or other places in shorthand or
      by other means;

(h)   writing and answering business or technical letters and
      other similar correspondence;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.
  
Examples of the occupations classified here:   Administrative secretary
  Assistant, correspondence
  Verbatim reporter
  
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Secretary - 4115

2451  AUTHORS, JOURNALISTS AND OTHER WRITERS 
     Authors, journalists and other writers write literary works
for  publication or presentation in dramatic form, appraise
merits of artistic  productions, or literary and other works of
art, or write and edit news,  stories and commentaries.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing literary works for publication or
      presentation in dramatic form;

(b)   writing scripts and continuities and preparing programmes
      for stage, film, radio and television productions;

(c)   appraising and writing about merits of literary, musical
      and other works of art, and about artistic performances;

(d)   collecting, reporting and commenting on news and current
      affairs for publication in newspapers and periodicals, or
      for broadcasting by radio or television;

(e)   interviewing politicians and other public figures at press
      conferences and on other occasions, including individual
      interviews recorded for radio or television;

(f)   writing editorials and selecting, revising, arranging and
      editing submitted articles and other material for
      publication in newspapers and periodicals;

(g)   appraising manuscripts submitted for publication in book
      form, making recommendations thereon and editing or
      supervising editing of the material;

(h)   writing advertising copy promoting particular products or
      services;

(i)   selecting, assembling and preparing publicity material
      about business or other organisations for issue through
      press, radio, television and other media;

(j)   designing and writing brochures, handbooks and similar
      technical publications;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Author
  Copywriter, advertising
  Critic
  Editor
  Journalist
  Writer, technical

3429  BUSINESS SERVICES AGENTS AND TRADE BROKERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers business services agents and trade
brokers not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 342.  Business
services agents and trade  brokers.     For instance, here should be classified those who establish
business  contacts, sell business services such as advertising
space in the media,  transport services, and other facilities,
credit and other business  information, arrange contracts for
performances of athletes, entertainers and  artists, as well as
for the publication of books, the production of plays, or  the
recording, performing and sale of music.     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   obtaining information about services to be sold and needs
      of prospective buyers'.

(b)   negotiating contracts on behalf of seller or buyer and
      explaining terms of sale and payment to client;

(c)   signing agreements on behalf of seller or buyer and
      ensuring that contract is honoured ;

(d)   making sure that the business service purchased is made
      available to the buyer in the agreed format the agreed
      time;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Agent, literary
  Agent, musical performance
  Agent, sports
  Agent, theatrical
  Salesperson, business services/advertising

1120  SENIOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS 

      Senior government officials advise governments on policy
matters, oversee the interpretation and implementation of
government policies and legislation  by government departments
and agencies, represent their country abroad and act  on its
behalf, or carry out similar tasks in intergovernmental
organisations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   advising national, state, regional or local governments on
      policy matters;

(b)   advising on the preparation of government budgets, laws and
      regulations, including amendments;

(c)   overseeing the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies and legislation by government
      departments and agencies;

(d)   representing their country abroad;
         
(e)   performing similar tasks in intergovernmental
      organisations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Administrator, government
Administrator, intergovernmental organisation
Ambassador
Consul-general
Secretary, government/non legislative

3415  TECHNICAL AND COMMERCIAL SALES REPRESENTATIVES 
     Technical and commercial sales representatives sell various
goods on a  wholesale basis including installations, equipment
and technical products and  related services, and provide
specialised information as required.     Tasks include -

(a)   soliciting orders and selling goods to retail, industrial,
      wholesale and other establishments;

(b)   selling technical equipment, supplies and related services
      to business establishments or individuals;

(c)   providing prospective customers with general and
      specialised information about the characteristics and
      functions of the equipment, and 
     demonstrating its use;

(d)   reporting customers' reactions and requirements to
      manufacturers;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Adviser, after-sales service
  Canvasser
  Commercial traveller
  Salesperson, technical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Salesperson, retail establishment - 5220

1315  GENERAL MANAGERS OF RESTAURANTS AND HOTELS 
      General managers of restaurants and hotels head small
restaurant or hotel  businesses and, on their own behalf or on
behalf of the proprietor, plan,  direct and coordinate the
activities of the business, with the assistance of  no more than
one other manager and some non-managerial help.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;

(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 General manager, hotel 

 General manager, restaurant 

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Department manager, production and operations/restaurant
         - 1225 

 Managing director, enterprise/hotel - 1210 

2452  SCULPTORS, PAINTERS AND RELATED ARTISTS 
     Sculptors, painters and related artists create and execute
works of art  by sculpting, painting, drawing, creating cartoons,
engraving or using related  techniques.

     Tasks include -

(a)   creating representational or abstract three-dimensional or
      relief forms by shaping and combining materials such as
      wood, stone, clay or metal;

(b)   creating representational or abstract drawings and
      paintings using pencils, ink, chalk, oil paints, water
      colours or through the application of other techniques;

(c)   creating drawings and engraving or etching them on metal,
      wood, or other materials;

(d)   creating cartoons to depict persons and events, often in
      caricature;

(e)   creating and executing designs and illustrations for books,
      magazines, advertising and similar purposes;

(f)   restoring damaged, soiled and faded paintings and other art
      objects;

(g)   painting miniatures;

(h)   per-forming related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Artist, commercial
  Cartoonist
  Engraver-etcher, artistic
  Painter, portrait
  Restorer, picture
  Sculptor

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Designer, industrial products - 3471

1314  GENERAL MANAGERS IN WHOLESALE AND RETAIL TRADE 
      General managers in wholesale and retail trade head small
wholesale or  retail businesses and, on their own behalf or on
behalf of the proprietor,  plan, direct and coordinate the
activities of the business, with the  assistance of no more than
one other manager and some non-managerial help.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;


(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here':

 General manager, retail trade 

 General manager, wholesale trade 

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Department manager, production and operations/retail
         trade - 1224 

 Managing director, enterprise/wholesale trade -
         1210 

7343  PRINTING ENGRAVERS AND ETCHERS
 

     Printing engravers and etchers engrave lithographic stones
and printing  plates, rollers, dies and blocks by various
processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting designs through film applied to surface of
     lithographic stones;

(b)  engraving steel and copper plates, rollers, dies or wood,
     rubber and linoleum blocks by hand;

(c)  engraving metal plates and rollers by machine;

(d)  transferring designs from lithographic stone to metal
     plates;

(e)  performing all or several tasks in preparing printing plates
     by photogravure process;

(f)  etching metal plates or rollers with acid and retouching;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Engraver, printing/lithographic stone
  Engraver, printing/metal plate
  Etcher, printing/metal plate
  Photo-engraver
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Designer, graphic - 3471

2111  PHYSICISTS AND ASTRONOMERS 
     Physicists and astronomers conduct research, improve or
develop concepts,  theories and operational methods, or apply
scientific knowledge relating to  physics and astronomy in
industrial, medical, military or other fields.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research, and improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods related to physics and
      astronomy-.

(b)   conducting experiments, tests and analyses in fields such
      as mechanics, thermodynamics, optics, sonics, electricity,
      magnetism, electronics and nuclear physics, or astronomy;

(c)   conducting experiments, tests and analyses of the structure
      and properties of matter in solid state and its behaviour
      under temperature, pressure, stress and other conditions;

(d)   evaluating results of investigations and experiments and
      expressing conclusions, mainly using mathematical
      techniques and models;

(e)   developing or improving industrial, medical, military and
      other practical applications of the principles and
      techniques of physics or astronomy'.

(f)   observing, analysing and interpreting celestial phenomena
      and developing methods and techniques to be used in fields
      such as navigation or space exploration;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Astronomer

  Physicist

7432  WEAVERS, KNITTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

  
     Weavers, knitters and related workers spin and wind yarn by
hand, weave  materials on hand looms, make carpets by using a
knotting technique, knit  garment fabrics by hand or hand-
operated machine or perform similar  manufacturing tasks by hand
or hand-operated machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  spinning and winding yarn by hand;

(b)  drawing warp threads into loom by hand;

(c)  weaving plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpet or
     other fabrics on hand looms;

(d)  making carpets by using a knotting technique;

(e)  knitting garments and other articles on hand-operated
     machine or by hand;

(f)  crocheting or making braid by hand;

(g)  making nets by hand;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Knitter
  Spinner, thread and yarn
  Threader, loom
  Weaver, carpet
  Weaver cloth
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, knitting - 8262
  Machine-operator, weaving - 8262

9331  HAND OR PEDAL VEHICLE DRIVERS
 

     Hand or pedal vehicle drivers propel cycles and similar
vehicles to  transport passengers or goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  loading or unloading goods, or assisting passengers in
     getting on or off a vehicle;

(b)  moving vehicle in the desired direction with due regard to
     other traffic and traffic regulations;

(c)  making minor repairs and keeping vehicle in good order;

(d)  collecting fares or charges;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, pedal vehicle
  Driver, rickshaw
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Rider, motor cycle - 8321

8321  MOTOR-CYCLE DRIVERS
 

     Motor-cycle drivers drive and tend motor cycles or motorised
tricycles  equipped to transport materials, goods or passengers.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving and tending motor cycle or motorised tricycle to
     transport materials, goods and passengers;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Dispatch rider
  Motor-cyclist
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Driver, pedal vehicle - 9331

6141  FORESTRY WORKERS AND LOGGERS
 
     Forestry workers and loggers carry out the necessary
operations to  cultivate, conserve and exploit forests, for sale
or delivery of forestry  products on a regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a) establishing and caring for forest stands;

(b)  locating trees to be felled and estimating volume of timber;

(c)  trimming, topping and felling trees and sawing them into
     logs;

(d)  shaping rough wooden products from logs at felling site;

(e)  stacking logs, loading them in chutes or floating them down
     rivers;

(f)  keeping watch to detect forest fires and participating in
     firefighting operations;

(g)  delivering or marketing forestry products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Climber, logging
  Cruiser, timber
  Feller-bucker, tree
  Forestry worker, skilled
  Logger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/forestry
        - 1221
  General manager, forestry - 1311
  Labourer, forestry - 9212
  Managing director, enterprise/forestry - 1210
  Operator, forestry machinery - 8331

9331  HAND OR PEDAL VEHICLE DRIVERS
 

     Hand or pedal vehicle drivers propel cycles and similar
vehicles to  transport passengers or goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  loading or unloading goods, or assisting passengers in
     getting on or off a vehicle;

(b)  moving vehicle in the desired direction with due regard to
     other traffic and traffic regulations;

(c)  making minor repairs and keeping vehicle in good order;

(d)  collecting fares or charges;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, pedal vehicle
  Driver, rickshaw
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Rider, motor cycle - 8321

7215  RIGGERS AND CABLE SPLICERS
 

     Riggers and cable splicers erect tackle for lifting and
hauling,' or  install and maintain cables, ropes and wires on
construction sites, oil- and  gas-well drilling sites, or in
ships, aircraft, and other places.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting up various types of cages, funicular railways,
     aerial cableways, moving platforms, lifting tackle and other
     hoisting equipment for moving passengers, workers,
     materials, machinery and other heavy objects in mountainous
     areas, across deep gorges or fjords, about workshops,
     shipyards, or other locations;

(b)  joining, repairing and fitting attachments to wires, hemp
     ropes and cables;

(c)  installing and repairing ropes, wires and cables on ships
     and aircraft;

(d)  working as member of crew erecting and repairing derricks
     for drilling water, gas- and oil-wells and installing
     cables, hoisting and drilling equipment;

(e)  working as member of cable crew fitting and installing wire
     cables in the construction of suspension bridges,

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Rigger
  Rigger, ship
  Splicer, cable and rope
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, splicing/cable and rope - 8290

7129  BUILDING FRAME AND RELATED TRADES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers building frame and related trades
workers not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 712, Building
frame and related trades  workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who perform
miscellaneous  construction and building maintenance tasks.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  performing miscellaneous construction and building
     maintenance work on structures such as office buildings,
     apartment houses, factories and similar establishments in
     good repair;

(b)  performing construction, maintenance or repair work at
     unusual heights;

(c)  erecting temporary metal or wooden scaffolding on building
     sites;

(d)  demolishing buildings and other structures;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Demolition worker
  Housebuilder, non-traditional materials
  Scaffolder
  Steeplejack
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Labourer, construction/buildings 9313
  Labourer, demolition - 9313

7215  RIGGERS AND CABLE SPLICERS
 

     Riggers and cable splicers erect tackle for lifting and
hauling,' or  install and maintain cables, ropes and wires on
construction sites, oil- and  gas-well drilling sites, or in
ships, aircraft, and other places.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting up various types of cages, funicular railways,
     aerial cableways, moving platforms, lifting tackle and other
     hoisting equipment for moving passengers, workers,
     materials, machinery and other heavy objects in mountainous
     areas, across deep gorges or fjords, about workshops,
     shipyards, or other locations;

(b)  joining, repairing and fitting attachments to wires, hemp
     ropes and cables;

(c)  installing and repairing ropes, wires and cables on ships
     and aircraft;

(d)  working as member of crew erecting and repairing derricks
     for drilling water, gas- and oil-wells and installing
     cables, hoisting and drilling equipment;

(e)  working as member of cable crew fitting and installing wire
     cables in the construction of suspension bridges,

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Rigger
  Rigger, ship
  Splicer, cable and rope
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, splicing/cable and rope - 8290

7214  STRUCTURAL-METAL PREPARERS AND ERECTORS
 

     Structural-metal preparers and erectors shape, assemble and
erect heavy  metal girders and plates to form structures and
frameworks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  marking metal members as a guide when drilling, cutting, and
     shaping them for use in buildings, ships and other
     structures;

(b)  drilling, cutting and shaping structural steel in a
     workshop;

(c)  erecting steel members for buildings, bridges and other
     constructions;

(d)  assembling and erecting the framework and other metal parts
     of ships' structures;

(e)  shaping and fitting structural-steel plates of ships under
     construction or repair;

(f)  riveting structural-metal members by hand, machine or
     pneumatic riveter;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Erector, structural metal
  Preparer, structural metal
  Riveter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, rivet production 8211

7111  MINERS AND QUARRY WORKERS
 

     Miners and quarry workers extract solid minerals from
underground or  surface mines or quarries.

     Tasks include -

(a)  extracting coal, ores and other solid minerals from
     underground or surface mines;

(b)  extracting granite, limestone, slate, flint or other kinds
     of rocks from quarries;

(c)  setting and operating machines which cut channels or drill
     blasting holes into the open face of mines or quarries;

(d)  cutting, fitting and installing wood or steel props, pillars
     and arches to support walls and roof of underground
     workings;

(e)  collecting samples of coal or ore for laboratory analysis;

(f)  extracting chalk, clay, gravel or sand from open pits;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Miner
  Quarrier
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, drilling/mine - 8111
  Machine-operator, mining/continuous - 8111

7416  TOBACCO PREPARERS AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Tobacco preparers and tobacco products makers prepare
tobacco leaves and  make various tobacco products.

     Tasks  include -

(a)  grading cured tobacco leaves by type, quality and locality
     where grown;

(b)  mixing tobacco leaves according to formula to obtain a blend
     of distinct flavour;

(c)  tending vacuum container which moistens tobacco for further
     processing;

(d)  removing midribs and stalks from tobacco leaves and
     shredding tobacco;

(e)  making cigars, cigarettes, snuff and other tobacco products
     by hand or with simple machines;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, tobacco
  Maker, cigar
  Maker, cigarette
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, cigar production - 8279
  Machine-operator, cigarette production - 8279

7313  JEWELLERY AND PRECIOUS-METAL WORKERS
 

     Jewellery and precious-metal workers make and repair
jewellery and  precious metalware, cut and set gems and engrave
designs on jewellery and  precious metal articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  casting jewellery and other non-ferrous metal articles by
     hand;

(b)  making complete jewellery articles such as rings, brooches
     and bracelets;

(c)  cutting and polishing gems and setting them in jewellery
     articles;

(d)  making and repairing precious metalware;

(e)  rolling and beating precious metals; engraving letters and
     designs on jewellery and precious metalware;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, jewellery
  Goldsmith
  Jeweller
  Setter, gem
  Silversmith

7412  BAKERS, PASTRY-COOKS AND CONFECTIONERY MAKERS
 

     Bakers, pastry-cooks and confectionery makers make various
kinds of  bread, cakes, and other flour products, as well as
handmade chocolate and  sugar confectionery.

     Tasks include  -

(a)  making bread, cakes, biscuits, pastries, pies and other
     flour products;

(b)  making handmade confectionery from mixtures of sugar,
     chocolate and other ingredients with the help of tools and
     some machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Baker
  Confectioner
  Maker, chocolate
 Pastry-cook
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cook - 5122
  Machine-operator, bakery products 8274
  Machine-operator, bread production 8274
  Machine-operator, chocolate production - 8274

7131  ROOFERS
 

     Roofers cover, maintain and repair roof frameworks with one
or more kinds  of material.

     Tasks include -

(a)  covering roof frameworks with slates and tiles, synthetic
     materials, asphalt, metal sheets, or thatching materials;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Roofer, asphalt
  Roofer, metal
  Roofer, slate
  Roofer, tile
  Thatcher

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

9113  DOOR-TO-DOOR AND TELEPHONE SALESPERSONS
 

     Door-to-door and telephone salespersons solicit business for
an  establishment, particularly from households, by going from
door to door or by  telephoning.

     Tasks include -

(a)  giving details of various goods or services and of the
     firm's terms of sale either by going from door to door or
     by telephoning;

(b)  demonstrating goods by pointing to their main
     characteristics or showing how they work;

(c)  taking notes of orders received and forwarding them to the
     firm;

(d)  distributing advertising literature or leaving samples;

(e)  collecting payment of instalments, if necessary;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Salesperson, door-to-door
  Salesperson, telephone

7431  FIBRE PREPARERS
 

     Fibre preparers prepare wool, cotton,flax, jute, hemp and
other natural  textile fibres for spinning and winding.

     Tasks include -

(a)  grading and classifying natural textile fibres;

(b)  washing wool fibres;

(c)  cleaning and fluffing textile fibres;

(d)  forming fibres into sliver, combing them, combining sliver
     into sliver laps or forming sliver into rove;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Comber, fibre/textiles
  Drawer, fibre/textiles
  Rover, fibre/textiles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator combing/textile fibres - 8261

7324  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED DECORATIVE PAINTERS
 

     Glass, ceramics and related decorative painters decorate
articles made of  wood, metal, textiles, glass, ceramics and
other materials, and plan, lay out  and paint letters and designs
to make signs.

     Tasks include -

(a)  painting designs on articles with a brush, by spraying, or
     by transferring designs using stencils, transfers, rubber
     stamps and other means;

(b)  applying, for decorative purposes, paint, glaze, enamel,
     stain, varnish, lacquer and similar materials on articles
     by spraying or dipping;

(c)  coating mirror glass with silver solutions;

(d)  laying out and painting letters and designs to make signs;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, glass
  Painter, decorative
  Sign-writer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, painting/ceramics - 8131
  Machine-operator, painting/glass - 8131
  Painter, building - 7141
  Painter, manufactured articles - 7142
  Painter, vehicle - 7142

9151  MESSENGERS, PACKAGE AND LUGGAGE PORTERS AND DELIVERERS
 

     Messengers, package and luggage porters and deliverers carry
and deliver  messages, packages and other items within an
establishment or between  establishments, to households and
elsewhere, or carry luggage especially at  hotels, stations and
airports.

     Tasks include -

(a)  delivering messages, packages and other items within an
     establishment or between establishments, or elsewhere;

(b)  performing the duties of a post-runner;

(c)  delivering various goods to and from enterprises, shops,
     households and other places;

(d)  carrying and delivering luggage at hotels, stations,
     airports, and elsewhere;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Deliverer, hand/newspapers
  Messenger
  Porter, luggage
  Post-runner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Postman - 4142
  Postwoman - 4142

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

8340  SHIPS' DECK CREWS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Ship's deck crews and related workers carry out deck duties
on board ship  and similar duties on board other water-borne
craft.

     Tasks include -

(a)  standing look-out watches at sea and when entering or
     leaving harbour or other narrow waters'.
(b)  steering ship according to instructions;

(c)  handling mooring lines on board;

(d)  maintaining and, in some cases, operating ship's equipment,
     cargo gear, rigging, life-saving and fire-fighting
     appliances;

(e)  performing deck and hull cleaning, scraping, painting and
     other maintenance duties as required;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Boatswain
  Sailor
  Seaman, able
  Seawoman, able

3411  SECURITIES AND FINANCE DEALERS AND BROKERS 
     Securities and finance dealers and brokers buy and sell
securities,  stocks, bonds and other financial instruments, and
deal on the foreign  exchange on spot or on futures markets, on
behalf of their own company or for  customers on a commission
basis and recommend transactions to clients or  senior
management.     Tasks include -

(a)   obtaining information about the financial circumstances of
      customers and companies in which investments may be made;

(b)   analysing market trends for securities, bonds, stocks and
      other financial instruments, including foreign exchange;

(c)   informing prospective customers about market conditions and
      prospects;

(d)   advising on and participating in the negotiation of terms
      for, and organisation of, loans and placement of stocks and
      bonds in the financial market to raise capital for
      customers;

(e)   recording and transmitting buy and sell orders for
      securities, stocks, bonds or other financial instruments
      and for foreign exchange for future or immediate delivery;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:  Broker, foreign exchange
  Broker, securities
  Broker, stocks and shares

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:  Clerk, securities - 4122

3429  BUSINESS SERVICES AGENTS AND TRADE BROKERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers business services agents and trade
brokers not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 342.  Business
services agents and trade  brokers.     For instance, here should be classified those who establish
business  contacts, sell business services such as advertising
space in the media,  transport services, and other facilities,
credit and other business  information, arrange contracts for
performances of athletes, entertainers and  artists, as well as
for the publication of books, the production of plays, or  the
recording, performing and sale of music.     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   obtaining information about services to be sold and needs
      of prospective buyers'.

(b)   negotiating contracts on behalf of seller or buyer and
      explaining terms of sale and payment to client;

(c)   signing agreements on behalf of seller or buyer and
      ensuring that contract is honoured ;

(d)   making sure that the business service purchased is made
      available to the buyer in the agreed format the agreed
      time;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Agent, literary
  Agent, musical performance
  Agent, sports
  Agent, theatrical
  Salesperson, business services/advertising

3415  TECHNICAL AND COMMERCIAL SALES REPRESENTATIVES 
     Technical and commercial sales representatives sell various
goods on a  wholesale basis including installations, equipment
and technical products and  related services, and provide
specialised information as required.     Tasks include -

(a)   soliciting orders and selling goods to retail, industrial,
      wholesale and other establishments;

(b)   selling technical equipment, supplies and related services
      to business establishments or individuals;

(c)   providing prospective customers with general and
      specialised information about the characteristics and
      functions of the equipment, and 
     demonstrating its use;

(d)   reporting customers' reactions and requirements to
      manufacturers;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Adviser, after-sales service
  Canvasser
  Commercial traveller
  Salesperson, technical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Salesperson, retail establishment - 5220

9113  DOOR-TO-DOOR AND TELEPHONE SALESPERSONS
 

     Door-to-door and telephone salespersons solicit business for
an  establishment, particularly from households, by going from
door to door or by  telephoning.

     Tasks include -

(a)  giving details of various goods or services and of the
     firm's terms of sale either by going from door to door or
     by telephoning;

(b)  demonstrating goods by pointing to their main
     characteristics or showing how they work;

(c)  taking notes of orders received and forwarding them to the
     firm;

(d)  distributing advertising literature or leaving samples;

(e)  collecting payment of instalments, if necessary;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Salesperson, door-to-door
  Salesperson, telephone

3415  TECHNICAL AND COMMERCIAL SALES REPRESENTATIVES 
     Technical and commercial sales representatives sell various
goods on a  wholesale basis including installations, equipment
and technical products and  related services, and provide
specialised information as required.     Tasks include -

(a)   soliciting orders and selling goods to retail, industrial,
      wholesale and other establishments;

(b)   selling technical equipment, supplies and related services
      to business establishments or individuals;

(c)   providing prospective customers with general and
      specialised information about the characteristics and
      functions of the equipment, and 
     demonstrating its use;

(d)   reporting customers' reactions and requirements to
      manufacturers;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Adviser, after-sales service
  Canvasser
  Commercial traveller
  Salesperson, technical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Salesperson, retail establishment - 5220

5230  STALL AND MARKET SALESPERSONS
 
     Stall and market salespersons sell various goods such as
leather or  textile craft products, wood carvings, embroidery,
lace, or newspapers,  periodicals, postcards, cigarettes,
chocolates and ice-creams, at stalls  usually grouped at
particular places in streets or other open spaces by  permission
of the relevant local authorities, or they sell fruit, vegetables

and other, mostly perishable, foodstuffs on markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  obtaining, from the local authorities, permission to set up
     a stand at a particular place in streets or other open
     spaces;

(b)  buying or contracting a regular supply of various goods to
     be sold such as leather or textile craft products, wood
     carvings, embroidery or lace, displaying them on stands and
     selling them;

(c)  buying or contracting a regular supply of newspapers,
     periodicals, postcards, cigarettes, chocolates and ice-
     creams and selling them at kiosks;

(d)  buying from wholesale markets, or directly from farmers,
     fresh fruit and vegetables or other, mostly perishable,
     foodstuffs and selling them on markets;

(e)  loading and unloading goods for sale; receiving payment;

(g)  keeping accounts;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

   Salesperson, kiosk
  Salesperson, market
  Salesperson, street stall
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

          Vendor, refreshments/cinema - 9111
  Vendor, street/food - 9111
  Vendor, street/non-food products - 9112

3415  TECHNICAL AND COMMERCIAL SALES REPRESENTATIVES 
     Technical and commercial sales representatives sell various
goods on a  wholesale basis including installations, equipment
and technical products and  related services, and provide
specialised information as required.     Tasks include -

(a)   soliciting orders and selling goods to retail, industrial,
      wholesale and other establishments;

(b)   selling technical equipment, supplies and related services
      to business establishments or individuals;

(c)   providing prospective customers with general and
      specialised information about the characteristics and
      functions of the equipment, and 
     demonstrating its use;

(d)   reporting customers' reactions and requirements to
      manufacturers;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Adviser, after-sales service
  Canvasser
  Commercial traveller
  Salesperson, technical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Salesperson, retail establishment - 5220

5230  STALL AND MARKET SALESPERSONS
 
     Stall and market salespersons sell various goods such as
leather or  textile craft products, wood carvings, embroidery,
lace, or newspapers,  periodicals, postcards, cigarettes,
chocolates and ice-creams, at stalls  usually grouped at
particular places in streets or other open spaces by  permission
of the relevant local authorities, or they sell fruit, vegetables

and other, mostly perishable, foodstuffs on markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  obtaining, from the local authorities, permission to set up
     a stand at a particular place in streets or other open
     spaces;

(b)  buying or contracting a regular supply of various goods to
     be sold such as leather or textile craft products, wood
     carvings, embroidery or lace, displaying them on stands and
     selling them;

(c)  buying or contracting a regular supply of newspapers,
     periodicals, postcards, cigarettes, chocolates and ice-
     creams and selling them at kiosks;

(d)  buying from wholesale markets, or directly from farmers,
     fresh fruit and vegetables or other, mostly perishable,
     foodstuffs and selling them on markets;

(e)  loading and unloading goods for sale; receiving payment;

(g)  keeping accounts;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

   Salesperson, kiosk
  Salesperson, market
  Salesperson, street stall
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

          Vendor, refreshments/cinema - 9111
  Vendor, street/food - 9111
  Vendor, street/non-food products - 9112

3413  ESTATE AGENTS 
     Estate agents arrange the sale, purchase, rental and lease
of real  property, usually on behalf of clients and on a
commission basis.     Tasks include -

(a)   obtaining information about properties to be sold or
      leased, the circumstances of their owner and the needs of
      prospective buyers or tenants;

(b)   showing properties to be sold or leased to prospective
      buyers or tenants and explaining terms of sale or
      conditions of rent or lease;

(c)   arranging signing of lease agreements and transfer of
      property rights;

(d)   collecting rent and bond monies on behalf of owner and
      inspecting properties before, during and after tenancies;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Agent, estate
  Realtor
  Salesperson, property

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Clerk, mortgage - 4122

5220  SHOP SALESPERSONS AND DEMONSTRATORS
 
     Shop salespersons and demonstrators demonstrate and sell
goods in  wholesale establishments to retailers and large-scale
consumers or to  customers in retail establishments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  moving goods to be sold from storage area to sales area and
     placing them on display;

(b)  ascertaining nature and quality of the product desired by
     the customer;

(c)  assisting customer in making a choice;

(d)  quoting prices, credit terms and discounts;

(e)  packing and arranging delivery of goods, if necessary;

(f)  writing bill, invoice, docket or receipt;

(g)  verifying cashier's receipt, if necessary;

(h)  giving demonstrations of articles on sale in order to inform
     customers about their characteristics and mode of use, as
     well as to stimulate buying interest;

(i)  performing related tasks;

(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Demonstrator
  Salesperson, retail establishment
  Salesperson, wholesale establishment
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Salesperson, kiosk - 5230
  Salesperson, market - 5230
  Salesperson, street stall - 5230

3411  SECURITIES AND FINANCE DEALERS AND BROKERS 
     Securities and finance dealers and brokers buy and sell
securities,  stocks, bonds and other financial instruments, and
deal on the foreign  exchange on spot or on futures markets, on
behalf of their own company or for  customers on a commission
basis and recommend transactions to clients or  senior
management.     Tasks include -

(a)   obtaining information about the financial circumstances of
      customers and companies in which investments may be made;

(b)   analysing market trends for securities, bonds, stocks and
      other financial instruments, including foreign exchange;

(c)   informing prospective customers about market conditions and
      prospects;

(d)   advising on and participating in the negotiation of terms
      for, and organisation of, loans and placement of stocks and
      bonds in the financial market to raise capital for
      customers;

(e)   recording and transmitting buy and sell orders for
      securities, stocks, bonds or other financial instruments
      and for foreign exchange for future or immediate delivery;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:  Broker, foreign exchange
  Broker, securities
  Broker, stocks and shares

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:  Clerk, securities - 4122

5220  SHOP SALESPERSONS AND DEMONSTRATORS
 
     Shop salespersons and demonstrators demonstrate and sell
goods in  wholesale establishments to retailers and large-scale
consumers or to  customers in retail establishments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  moving goods to be sold from storage area to sales area and
     placing them on display;

(b)  ascertaining nature and quality of the product desired by
     the customer;

(c)  assisting customer in making a choice;

(d)  quoting prices, credit terms and discounts;

(e)  packing and arranging delivery of goods, if necessary;

(f)  writing bill, invoice, docket or receipt;

(g)  verifying cashier's receipt, if necessary;

(h)  giving demonstrations of articles on sale in order to inform
     customers about their characteristics and mode of use, as
     well as to stimulate buying interest;

(i)  performing related tasks;

(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Demonstrator
  Salesperson, retail establishment
  Salesperson, wholesale establishment
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Salesperson, kiosk - 5230
  Salesperson, market - 5230
  Salesperson, street stall - 5230

5230  STALL AND MARKET SALESPERSONS
 
     Stall and market salespersons sell various goods such as
leather or  textile craft products, wood carvings, embroidery,
lace, or newspapers,  periodicals, postcards, cigarettes,
chocolates and ice-creams, at stalls  usually grouped at
particular places in streets or other open spaces by  permission
of the relevant local authorities, or they sell fruit, vegetables

and other, mostly perishable, foodstuffs on markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  obtaining, from the local authorities, permission to set up
     a stand at a particular place in streets or other open
     spaces;

(b)  buying or contracting a regular supply of various goods to
     be sold such as leather or textile craft products, wood
     carvings, embroidery or lace, displaying them on stands and
     selling them;

(c)  buying or contracting a regular supply of newspapers,
     periodicals, postcards, cigarettes, chocolates and ice-
     creams and selling them at kiosks;

(d)  buying from wholesale markets, or directly from farmers,
     fresh fruit and vegetables or other, mostly perishable,
     foodstuffs and selling them on markets;

(e)  loading and unloading goods for sale; receiving payment;

(g)  keeping accounts;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

   Salesperson, kiosk
  Salesperson, market
  Salesperson, street stall
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

          Vendor, refreshments/cinema - 9111
  Vendor, street/food - 9111
  Vendor, street/non-food products - 9112

3415  TECHNICAL AND COMMERCIAL SALES REPRESENTATIVES 
     Technical and commercial sales representatives sell various
goods on a  wholesale basis including installations, equipment
and technical products and  related services, and provide
specialised information as required.     Tasks include -

(a)   soliciting orders and selling goods to retail, industrial,
      wholesale and other establishments;

(b)   selling technical equipment, supplies and related services
      to business establishments or individuals;

(c)   providing prospective customers with general and
      specialised information about the characteristics and
      functions of the equipment, and 
     demonstrating its use;

(d)   reporting customers' reactions and requirements to
      manufacturers;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Adviser, after-sales service
  Canvasser
  Commercial traveller
  Salesperson, technical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Salesperson, retail establishment - 5220

9113  DOOR-TO-DOOR AND TELEPHONE SALESPERSONS
 

     Door-to-door and telephone salespersons solicit business for
an  establishment, particularly from households, by going from
door to door or by  telephoning.

     Tasks include -

(a)  giving details of various goods or services and of the
     firm's terms of sale either by going from door to door or
     by telephoning;

(b)  demonstrating goods by pointing to their main
     characteristics or showing how they work;

(c)  taking notes of orders received and forwarding them to the
     firm;

(d)  distributing advertising literature or leaving samples;

(e)  collecting payment of instalments, if necessary;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Salesperson, door-to-door
  Salesperson, telephone

3415  TECHNICAL AND COMMERCIAL SALES REPRESENTATIVES 
     Technical and commercial sales representatives sell various
goods on a  wholesale basis including installations, equipment
and technical products and  related services, and provide
specialised information as required.     Tasks include -

(a)   soliciting orders and selling goods to retail, industrial,
      wholesale and other establishments;

(b)   selling technical equipment, supplies and related services
      to business establishments or individuals;

(c)   providing prospective customers with general and
      specialised information about the characteristics and
      functions of the equipment, and 
     demonstrating its use;

(d)   reporting customers' reactions and requirements to
      manufacturers;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Adviser, after-sales service
  Canvasser
  Commercial traveller
  Salesperson, technical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Salesperson, retail establishment - 5220

5220  SHOP SALESPERSONS AND DEMONSTRATORS
 
     Shop salespersons and demonstrators demonstrate and sell
goods in  wholesale establishments to retailers and large-scale
consumers or to  customers in retail establishments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  moving goods to be sold from storage area to sales area and
     placing them on display;

(b)  ascertaining nature and quality of the product desired by
     the customer;

(c)  assisting customer in making a choice;

(d)  quoting prices, credit terms and discounts;

(e)  packing and arranging delivery of goods, if necessary;

(f)  writing bill, invoice, docket or receipt;

(g)  verifying cashier's receipt, if necessary;

(h)  giving demonstrations of articles on sale in order to inform
     customers about their characteristics and mode of use, as
     well as to stimulate buying interest;

(i)  performing related tasks;

(j)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Demonstrator
  Salesperson, retail establishment
  Salesperson, wholesale establishment
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Salesperson, kiosk - 5230
  Salesperson, market - 5230
  Salesperson, street stall - 5230

8272  DAIRY-PRODUCTS MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Dairy-products machine operators operate and monitor
machines which  process milk and cream and make dairy products.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which pasteurise,
     homogenise and heat-treat milk and cream;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which make condensed or
     powdered milk;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which make butter cheese
     and other milk or milk-based products;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
 Machine-operator, dairy products
 Machine-operator, pasteurising/milk
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
 Maker, butter - 7413
 Maker, cheese - 7413

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

5161  FIRE-FIGHTERS
 
     Fire-fighters prevent, fight and try to extinguish fires,
rescue persons and salvage property and goods during and after
fires and major accidents.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preventing, fighting and extinguishing fires;

(b)  fighting special types of fires and using special equipment
     in industrial establishments;

(c)  preventing and extinguishing fires in crashed or damaged
     aircraft and rescuing crew and passengers;

(d)  rescuing persons and salvaging property and goods during and
     after fires and major accidents;

(e)  preventing or limiting the spread of dangerous substances
in
     case of fires or accidents;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Fire-fighter
  Fire-fighter, aircraft accidents
  Fire-fighter, forest
  Salvage man, fire
  Salvage woman, fire
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Inspector, fire - 3151
  Investigator, fire - 3151
  Specialist, fire prevention - 31 51

3480  RELIGIOUS ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Religious associate professionals undertake religious works,
devote their  lives to contemplative prayer or meditation, and
preach and propagate the  teachings of their particular religion.     Tasks include -

(a)   undertaking religious works;

(b)   living as a member of a separate community, and observing
      its rules and practices;

(c)   devoting their lives to contemplative prayer or meditation;

(d)   preaching and propagating the teachings of a particular
      religious faith;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Monk, associate professional
  Nun, associate professional
  Preacher, lay
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Bonze - 2460	
  Imam - 2460
  Minister, religion - 2460
  Monk, professional - 2460
  Nun, professional - 2460
  Poojari - 2460
  Priest - 2460
  Rabbi- 2460

7111  MINERS AND QUARRY WORKERS
 

     Miners and quarry workers extract solid minerals from
underground or  surface mines or quarries.

     Tasks include -

(a)  extracting coal, ores and other solid minerals from
     underground or surface mines;

(b)  extracting granite, limestone, slate, flint or other kinds
     of rocks from quarries;

(c)  setting and operating machines which cut channels or drill
     blasting holes into the open face of mines or quarries;

(d)  cutting, fitting and installing wood or steel props, pillars
     and arches to support walls and roof of underground
     workings;

(e)  collecting samples of coal or ore for laboratory analysis;

(f)  extracting chalk, clay, gravel or sand from open pits;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Miner
  Quarrier
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, drilling/mine - 8111
  Machine-operator, mining/continuous - 8111

7143  BUILDING STRUCTURE CLEANERS
 

     Building structure cleaners remove soot from chimneys, or
clean exterior  surfaces of buildings and other structures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  removing soot from flues, chimneys and connecting pipes;

(b)  cleaning exterior surfaces of stone, brick, metal or similar
     materials by means of chemicals, of a jet of steam or sand
     applied under great pressure;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Chimney sweep
  Cleaner, building exteriors
  Sandblaster, building exteriors

7323  GLASS ENGRAVERS AND ETCHERS
 

     Glass engravers and etchers engrave and etch designs on
glass articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  engraving monograms and ornamental designs on glassware;

(b)  etching decorative designs, calibration markings and other
     figures on glass articles;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cutter, crystal glass
  Engraver, glass
  Etcher, glass

7113  STONE SPLITTERS, CUTTERS AND CARVERS
 



     Stone splitters, cutters and carvers break quarried stone
slabs or  blocks, or by using hand or hand-powered tools cut,
shape and finish stone for  building, ornamental, monumental and
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving wedges into quarried stone to break it into slabs
     or blocks;

(b)  selecting and grading slabs and blocks of granite, marble,
     and other stone;

(c)  cutting, shaping and finishing building and monumental stone
     such as granite or marble by using hand or hand-powered
     tools;

(d)  making patterns and marking shapes on stone for subsequent
     sawing, planing, drilling and other dressing and cutting
     operations;

(e)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     blocks used for monuments or memorials;

(f)  setting stone in the erection of monuments and memorials;

(g)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     used for decorative facings on buildings-

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carver, stone
  Cutter, stone
  Mason, monument
  Splitter, stone
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, carving/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, cutting/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, splitting/stone 8112
  Sculptor - 2452
  Stonemason, construction - 7122

3222  SANITARIANS 
     Sanitarians provide technical assistance and advice on
measures to  restore or improve sanitary conditions, and
supervise their implementation.

     Tasks include -

(a)   inspecting and giving advice on environmental sanitary
      problems and techniques;

(b)   initiating action to maintain or improve hygienic quality
      and prevent pollution of water, air, food or soil;

(c)   promoting preventive and corrective measures such as
      control of disease carrying organisms and of harmful
      substances in the air, hygienic food handling, proper
      disposal of waste and cleaning of public places;

(d)   organising demonstrations, giving lectures and distributing
      material to promote adoption of improved practices and
      techniques;

(e)   collecting data and estimating quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects;

(f)   applying knowledge of hygiene and sanitation principles and
      practices in order to identify and solve problems arising
      in the course of their work;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Inspector, sanitary
  Sanitarian

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Inspector, safety and health - 3152
  Inspector, safety and health/industrial waste-processing
        - 3152
  Inspector, safety and health/pollution 3152

8141  WOOD-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Wood-processing-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment for sawing wood, cutting veneer and
making plywood, and otherwise  prepare wood for further use.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring log in-feed and conveyor systems;

(b)  operating and monitoring head saws, resaws and multiblade
     saws to saw logs, cants, flitches, slabs or wings and remove
     rough edges from sawn timber;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut veneer;

(d)  operating and monitoring plywood core-laying machines and
     hot-plate plywood presses;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, band-saw
  Operator, sawmill
  Operator, wood-processing plant
  Press-operator, plywood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Wood seasoner - 7421
  Wood treater - 7421

7313  JEWELLERY AND PRECIOUS-METAL WORKERS
 

     Jewellery and precious-metal workers make and repair
jewellery and  precious metalware, cut and set gems and engrave
designs on jewellery and  precious metal articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  casting jewellery and other non-ferrous metal articles by
     hand;

(b)  making complete jewellery articles such as rings, brooches
     and bracelets;

(c)  cutting and polishing gems and setting them in jewellery
     articles;

(d)  making and repairing precious metalware;

(e)  rolling and beating precious metals; engraving letters and
     designs on jewellery and precious metalware;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, jewellery
  Goldsmith
  Jeweller
  Setter, gem
  Silversmith

7423  WOODWORKING-MACHINE SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Woodworking-machine setters and setter-operators set or set
and operate  woodworking machines, such as precision sawing,
shaping, planing, boring, turning and woodcarving machines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting and adjusting various kinds of machines for
     operation by others;

(b)  setting and operating one or several types of woodworking
     machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Sawyer, precision woodworking
  Setter, woodworking machine
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine
  Turner, wood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator woodworking - 8240
  Setter-operator, metalworking machine - 7223

8141  WOOD-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Wood-processing-plant operators operate and monitor
machinery and  equipment for sawing wood, cutting veneer and
making plywood, and otherwise  prepare wood for further use.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring log in-feed and conveyor systems;

(b)  operating and monitoring head saws, resaws and multiblade
     saws to saw logs, cants, flitches, slabs or wings and remove
     rough edges from sawn timber;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which cut veneer;

(d)  operating and monitoring plywood core-laying machines and
     hot-plate plywood presses;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, band-saw
  Operator, sawmill
  Operator, wood-processing plant
  Press-operator, plywood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Wood seasoner - 7421
  Wood treater - 7421

7113  STONE SPLITTERS, CUTTERS AND CARVERS
 



     Stone splitters, cutters and carvers break quarried stone
slabs or  blocks, or by using hand or hand-powered tools cut,
shape and finish stone for  building, ornamental, monumental and
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving wedges into quarried stone to break it into slabs
     or blocks;

(b)  selecting and grading slabs and blocks of granite, marble,
     and other stone;

(c)  cutting, shaping and finishing building and monumental stone
     such as granite or marble by using hand or hand-powered
     tools;

(d)  making patterns and marking shapes on stone for subsequent
     sawing, planing, drilling and other dressing and cutting
     operations;

(e)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     blocks used for monuments or memorials;

(f)  setting stone in the erection of monuments and memorials;

(g)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     used for decorative facings on buildings-

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carver, stone
  Cutter, stone
  Mason, monument
  Splitter, stone
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, carving/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, cutting/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, splitting/stone 8112
  Sculptor - 2452
  Stonemason, construction - 7122

7423  WOODWORKING-MACHINE SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Woodworking-machine setters and setter-operators set or set
and operate  woodworking machines, such as precision sawing,
shaping, planing, boring, turning and woodcarving machines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting and adjusting various kinds of machines for
     operation by others;

(b)  setting and operating one or several types of woodworking
     machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Sawyer, precision woodworking
  Setter, woodworking machine
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine
  Turner, wood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator woodworking - 8240
  Setter-operator, metalworking machine - 7223

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

7129  BUILDING FRAME AND RELATED TRADES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers building frame and related trades
workers not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 712, Building
frame and related trades  workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who perform
miscellaneous  construction and building maintenance tasks.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  performing miscellaneous construction and building
     maintenance work on structures such as office buildings,
     apartment houses, factories and similar establishments in
     good repair;

(b)  performing construction, maintenance or repair work at
     unusual heights;

(c)  erecting temporary metal or wooden scaffolding on building
     sites;

(d)  demolishing buildings and other structures;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Demolition worker
  Housebuilder, non-traditional materials
  Scaffolder
  Steeplejack
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Labourer, construction/buildings 9313
  Labourer, demolition - 9313

6141  FORESTRY WORKERS AND LOGGERS
 
     Forestry workers and loggers carry out the necessary
operations to  cultivate, conserve and exploit forests, for sale
or delivery of forestry  products on a regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a) establishing and caring for forest stands;

(b)  locating trees to be felled and estimating volume of timber;

(c)  trimming, topping and felling trees and sawing them into
     logs;

(d)  shaping rough wooden products from logs at felling site;

(e)  stacking logs, loading them in chutes or floating them down
     rivers;

(f)  keeping watch to detect forest fires and participating in
     firefighting operations;

(g)  delivering or marketing forestry products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Climber, logging
  Cruiser, timber
  Feller-bucker, tree
  Forestry worker, skilled
  Logger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/forestry
        - 1221
  General manager, forestry - 1311
  Labourer, forestry - 9212
  Managing director, enterprise/forestry - 1210
  Operator, forestry machinery - 8331

7431  FIBRE PREPARERS
 

     Fibre preparers prepare wool, cotton,flax, jute, hemp and
other natural  textile fibres for spinning and winding.

     Tasks include -

(a)  grading and classifying natural textile fibres;

(b)  washing wool fibres;

(c)  cleaning and fluffing textile fibres;

(d)  forming fibres into sliver, combing them, combining sliver
     into sliver laps or forming sliver into rove;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Comber, fibre/textiles
  Drawer, fibre/textiles
  Rover, fibre/textiles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator combing/textile fibres - 8261

7416  TOBACCO PREPARERS AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Tobacco preparers and tobacco products makers prepare
tobacco leaves and  make various tobacco products.

     Tasks  include -

(a)  grading cured tobacco leaves by type, quality and locality
     where grown;

(b)  mixing tobacco leaves according to formula to obtain a blend
     of distinct flavour;

(c)  tending vacuum container which moistens tobacco for further
     processing;

(d)  removing midribs and stalks from tobacco leaves and
     shredding tobacco;

(e)  making cigars, cigarettes, snuff and other tobacco products
     by hand or with simple machines;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, tobacco
  Maker, cigar
  Maker, cigarette
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, cigar production - 8279
  Machine-operator, cigarette production - 8279

4144  SCRIBES AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Scribes and related workers write letters and complete forms
on behalf of  illiterate persons.
     Tasks include -

(a)  reading letters and other written matter to illiterate
     persons and providing necessary interpretation and
     information;
(b)  writing letters and completing forms on behalf of illiterate
     persons;
(c)  offering advice to individuals and interpreting and helping
     with the completion of government and other official forms;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Scribe

2452  SCULPTORS, PAINTERS AND RELATED ARTISTS 
     Sculptors, painters and related artists create and execute
works of art  by sculpting, painting, drawing, creating cartoons,
engraving or using related  techniques.

     Tasks include -

(a)   creating representational or abstract three-dimensional or
      relief forms by shaping and combining materials such as
      wood, stone, clay or metal;

(b)   creating representational or abstract drawings and
      paintings using pencils, ink, chalk, oil paints, water
      colours or through the application of other techniques;

(c)   creating drawings and engraving or etching them on metal,
      wood, or other materials;

(d)   creating cartoons to depict persons and events, often in
      caricature;

(e)   creating and executing designs and illustrations for books,
      magazines, advertising and similar purposes;

(f)   restoring damaged, soiled and faded paintings and other art
      objects;

(g)   painting miniatures;

(h)   per-forming related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Artist, commercial
  Cartoonist
  Engraver-etcher, artistic
  Painter, portrait
  Restorer, picture
  Sculptor

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Designer, industrial products - 3471

8340  SHIPS' DECK CREWS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Ship's deck crews and related workers carry out deck duties
on board ship  and similar duties on board other water-borne
craft.

     Tasks include -

(a)  standing look-out watches at sea and when entering or
     leaving harbour or other narrow waters'.
(b)  steering ship according to instructions;

(c)  handling mooring lines on board;

(d)  maintaining and, in some cases, operating ship's equipment,
     cargo gear, rigging, life-saving and fire-fighting
     appliances;

(e)  performing deck and hull cleaning, scraping, painting and
     other maintenance duties as required;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Boatswain
  Sailor
  Seaman, able
  Seawoman, able

7436  SEWERS, EMBROIDERERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Sewers, embroiderers and related workers sew together,
repair and  decorate garments, gloves and other products of
textile, fur, leather and  other materials by hand or by using
simple sewing machines, and perform  various related tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  performing various sewing tasks in making, altering and
     repairing articles of textile, leather and other materials;

(b)  embroidering decorative designs on garments or materials;

(c)  sewing sails, tents, awnings and similar articles;

(d)  assembling and covering umbrellas;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Embroiderer
  Maker, umbrella
  Sewer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Dressmaker - 7433
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, sewing - 8263

8340  SHIPS' DECK CREWS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Ship's deck crews and related workers carry out deck duties
on board ship  and similar duties on board other water-borne
craft.

     Tasks include -

(a)  standing look-out watches at sea and when entering or
     leaving harbour or other narrow waters'.
(b)  steering ship according to instructions;

(c)  handling mooring lines on board;

(d)  maintaining and, in some cases, operating ship's equipment,
     cargo gear, rigging, life-saving and fire-fighting
     appliances;

(e)  performing deck and hull cleaning, scraping, painting and
     other maintenance duties as required;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Boatswain
  Sailor
  Seaman, able
  Seawoman, able

4115  SECRETARIES
 
     Secretaries use typewriters or word-processing equipment to
check and  transcribe correspondence and other documents, deal
with incoming and outgoing  mail, screen requests for meetings
or appointments, record and screen leave  and other staff
entitlements, organise and supervise filing systems, and deal 
with routine correspondence on their own initiative.
     Tasks include -

(a)  checking and transcribing correspondence, minutes and
     reports from dictation or written drafts to conform to off
     ice standards, using typewriter or word processing
     equipment;
(b)  dealing with incoming or outgoing mail;
(c)  scanning, recording and distributing mail, correspondence
     and documents;
(d)  screening requests for meetings or appointments and helping
     to organise meetings;
(e)  screening and recording leave and other staff-members'
     entitlements;
(f)  organising and supervising filing systems;
(g)  dealing with routine correspondence on their own initiative;
(h)  performing related tasks;
(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations here:
   Secretary
  Secretary, stenography/typing
  Secretary, typing
  Secretary, word-processing

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Assistant, correspondence - 3431
  Secretary, administrative - 3431

3431  ADMINISTRATIVE SECRETARIES AND RELATED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS
 
     Administrative secretaries and related associate
professionals implement  and support the communication,
documentation and internal managerial  co-ordination activities
of an organisational unit to assist the head of unit  and other
members of staff, and make verbatim reports of proceedings.     Tasks include -

(a)   drafting administrative correspondence and minutes;

(b)   obtaining, proposing and monitoring deadlines and follow-up
      dates;

(c)   screening requests for meetings, scheduling and organising
      meetings, scheduling and organising meetings and travel
      arrangements for the head of unit and other members of
      staff:

(d)   assisting in the preparation of budgets, monitoring of
      expenditures, drafting of contracts and purchasing or
      acquisition orders;

(e)   assisting the head of unit and other staff with inquiries
      of an administrative or organisational nature;

(f)   assisting the head of unit in organising and hosting
      hospitality functions for outside visitors or members of
      staff;

(g)   making verbatim reports of proceedings in legislative
      assemblies, courts of law or other places in shorthand or
      by other means;

(h)   writing and answering business or technical letters and
      other similar correspondence;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.
  
Examples of the occupations classified here:   Administrative secretary
  Assistant, correspondence
  Verbatim reporter
  
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Secretary - 4115

1120  SENIOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS 

      Senior government officials advise governments on policy
matters, oversee the interpretation and implementation of
government policies and legislation  by government departments
and agencies, represent their country abroad and act  on its
behalf, or carry out similar tasks in intergovernmental
organisations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   advising national, state, regional or local governments on
      policy matters;

(b)   advising on the preparation of government budgets, laws and
      regulations, including amendments;

(c)   overseeing the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies and legislation by government
      departments and agencies;

(d)   representing their country abroad;
         
(e)   performing similar tasks in intergovernmental
      organisations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Administrator, government
Administrator, intergovernmental organisation
Ambassador
Consul-general
Secretary, government/non legislative

3439  ADMINISTRATIVE ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers administrative associate
professionals not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 343,
Administrative associate professionals.     For instance, here should be classified those who act as
administrative consular officials, undertake executive
secretarial duties for departmental  heads or official
committees, analyse files and other sources of information  and
write reports for responsible administrators, giving relevant
information  and some advice on policy questions, departmental
programmes, administrative  problems and other matters.     In such cases tasks would include:

(a)   acting as administrative consular official;

(b)   undertaking executive secretarial duties for departmental
      heads-
(c)   undertaking executive secretarial duties for official
      committees;

(d)   analysing files and other sources of information, and
      writing reports for responsible administrators;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Executive secretary, committee
  Executive secretary, government administration
  Official, consular

1110  LEGISLATORS 
      Legislators determine, formulate, and direct policies of
national, state,  regional or local governments, and make,
ratify, amend or repeal laws, public  rules and regulations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   presiding over or participating in the proceedings of
      legislative bodies and administrative councils of national,
      state, regional or local governments or legislative
      assemblies;

(b)   determining, formulating, and directing policies of
      national, state, regional or local governments;

(c)   making, ratifying, amending or repealing laws, public rules
      and regulations within the framework of a Constitution
      determining their powers and fields of jurisdiction;

(d)   serving on government administrative boards or official
      committees;

(e)   promoting the interests of the constituencies which they
      represent;

(f)   as members of the government, directing senior
      administrators and officials of government departments and
      agencies in the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Minister, government

President, government

Prime minister

Secretary, government/legislative

Senator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Secretary, government/non legislative - 1120

1120  SENIOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS 

      Senior government officials advise governments on policy
matters, oversee the interpretation and implementation of
government policies and legislation  by government departments
and agencies, represent their country abroad and act  on its
behalf, or carry out similar tasks in intergovernmental
organisations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   advising national, state, regional or local governments on
      policy matters;

(b)   advising on the preparation of government budgets, laws and
      regulations, including amendments;

(c)   overseeing the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies and legislation by government
      departments and agencies;

(d)   representing their country abroad;
         
(e)   performing similar tasks in intergovernmental
      organisations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Administrator, government
Administrator, intergovernmental organisation
Ambassador
Consul-general
Secretary, government/non legislative

1110  LEGISLATORS 
      Legislators determine, formulate, and direct policies of
national, state,  regional or local governments, and make,
ratify, amend or repeal laws, public  rules and regulations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   presiding over or participating in the proceedings of
      legislative bodies and administrative councils of national,
      state, regional or local governments or legislative
      assemblies;

(b)   determining, formulating, and directing policies of
      national, state, regional or local governments;

(c)   making, ratifying, amending or repealing laws, public rules
      and regulations within the framework of a Constitution
      determining their powers and fields of jurisdiction;

(d)   serving on government administrative boards or official
      committees;

(e)   promoting the interests of the constituencies which they
      represent;

(f)   as members of the government, directing senior
      administrators and officials of government departments and
      agencies in the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Minister, government

President, government

Prime minister

Secretary, government/legislative

Senator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Secretary, government/non legislative - 1120

4115  SECRETARIES
 
     Secretaries use typewriters or word-processing equipment to
check and  transcribe correspondence and other documents, deal
with incoming and outgoing  mail, screen requests for meetings
or appointments, record and screen leave  and other staff
entitlements, organise and supervise filing systems, and deal 
with routine correspondence on their own initiative.
     Tasks include -

(a)  checking and transcribing correspondence, minutes and
     reports from dictation or written drafts to conform to off
     ice standards, using typewriter or word processing
     equipment;
(b)  dealing with incoming or outgoing mail;
(c)  scanning, recording and distributing mail, correspondence
     and documents;
(d)  screening requests for meetings or appointments and helping
     to organise meetings;
(e)  screening and recording leave and other staff-members'
     entitlements;
(f)  organising and supervising filing systems;
(g)  dealing with routine correspondence on their own initiative;
(h)  performing related tasks;
(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations here:
   Secretary
  Secretary, stenography/typing
  Secretary, typing
  Secretary, word-processing

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Assistant, correspondence - 3431
  Secretary, administrative - 3431

1142  SENIOR OFFICIALS OF EMPLOYERS', WORKERS' AND OTHER
ECONOMIC-INTEREST  ORGANISATIONS 
      Senior officials of employers', workers' and other
economic-interest  organisations determine and formulate
policies, rules and regulations of their  respective
organisations, direct their application, represent these 
organisations and act on their behalf.

      Tasks include -

(a)   deciding and formulating the organisation's policies, rules
      and regulations;

(b)   negotiating on behalf of the organisation and its members;

(c)   promoting the interests of the organisation and its members
      before the legislature, government or general public;

(d)   planning and organising campaigns to recruit and educate
      members;

(e)   planning, organising and directing sections charged with
      implementing the organisation's policies, rules and
      regulations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Secretary-general, employers' organisation
Secretary-general, trade union
Senior official, employers' organisation
Senior official, trade union

1143  SENIOR OFFICIALS OF HUMANITARIAN AND OTHER SPECIAL-INTEREST
ORGANISATIONS 
      Senior officials of humanitarian and other special-interest
organisations  determine and formulate policies, rules and
regulations of humanitarian  organisations, sports associations
or other special-interest organisations,  direct their
application, represent these organisations and act on. their 
behalf.

      Tasks include -

(a)   determining and formulating the organisation's policies,
      rules and regulations;

(b)   negotiating on behalf of the organisation, its members and
      relevant special interest groups;

(c)   promoting the interests of the organisation and its members
      before the legislature, government or general public;

(d)   planning and organising campaigns to recruit and educate
      members;

(e)   planning, organising and directing sections charged with
      implementing the organisation's policies, rules and
      regulations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Secretary-general, environment protection organisation
Secretary-general, wild life protection organisation
Senior official, special-interest organisation

1120  SENIOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS 

      Senior government officials advise governments on policy
matters, oversee the interpretation and implementation of
government policies and legislation  by government departments
and agencies, represent their country abroad and act  on its
behalf, or carry out similar tasks in intergovernmental
organisations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   advising national, state, regional or local governments on
      policy matters;

(b)   advising on the preparation of government budgets, laws and
      regulations, including amendments;

(c)   overseeing the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies and legislation by government
      departments and agencies;

(d)   representing their country abroad;
         
(e)   performing similar tasks in intergovernmental
      organisations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Administrator, government
Administrator, intergovernmental organisation
Ambassador
Consul-general
Secretary, government/non legislative

1143  SENIOR OFFICIALS OF HUMANITARIAN AND OTHER SPECIAL-INTEREST
ORGANISATIONS 
      Senior officials of humanitarian and other special-interest
organisations  determine and formulate policies, rules and
regulations of humanitarian  organisations, sports associations
or other special-interest organisations,  direct their
application, represent these organisations and act on. their 
behalf.

      Tasks include -

(a)   determining and formulating the organisation's policies,
      rules and regulations;

(b)   negotiating on behalf of the organisation, its members and
      relevant special interest groups;

(c)   promoting the interests of the organisation and its members
      before the legislature, government or general public;

(d)   planning and organising campaigns to recruit and educate
      members;

(e)   planning, organising and directing sections charged with
      implementing the organisation's policies, rules and
      regulations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Secretary-general, environment protection organisation
Secretary-general, wild life protection organisation
Senior official, special-interest organisation

1141  SENIOR OFFICIALS OF POLITICAL-PARTY ORGANISATIONS 
      Senior officials of political-party organisations determine
and formulate  policies, rules and regulations of political-party
organisations, direct their  application, represent these
organisations and act on their behalf.

      Tasks include -

(a)   determining and formulating the political-party's policies,
      rules and regulations;

(b)   negotiating on behalf of the political party and its
      members;

(c)   planning and organising campaigns, on behalf of the
      political party, for the e lection of its candidates to
      political offices;

(d)   planning and organising campaigns to recruit and educate
      political party members;

(e)   planning, organising and directing sections charged with
      implementing the political-party's policies, rules and
      regulations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Leader, political party

President, political party

Senior official, political party

1143  SENIOR OFFICIALS OF HUMANITARIAN AND OTHER SPECIAL-INTEREST
ORGANISATIONS 
      Senior officials of humanitarian and other special-interest
organisations  determine and formulate policies, rules and
regulations of humanitarian  organisations, sports associations
or other special-interest organisations,  direct their
application, represent these organisations and act on. their 
behalf.

      Tasks include -

(a)   determining and formulating the organisation's policies,
      rules and regulations;

(b)   negotiating on behalf of the organisation, its members and
      relevant special interest groups;

(c)   promoting the interests of the organisation and its members
      before the legislature, government or general public;

(d)   planning and organising campaigns to recruit and educate
      members;

(e)   planning, organising and directing sections charged with
      implementing the organisation's policies, rules and
      regulations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Secretary-general, environment protection organisation
Secretary-general, wild life protection organisation
Senior official, special-interest organisation

1142  SENIOR OFFICIALS OF EMPLOYERS', WORKERS' AND OTHER
ECONOMIC-INTEREST  ORGANISATIONS 
      Senior officials of employers', workers' and other
economic-interest  organisations determine and formulate
policies, rules and regulations of their  respective
organisations, direct their application, represent these 
organisations and act on their behalf.

      Tasks include -

(a)   deciding and formulating the organisation's policies, rules
      and regulations;

(b)   negotiating on behalf of the organisation and its members;

(c)   promoting the interests of the organisation and its members
      before the legislature, government or general public;

(d)   planning and organising campaigns to recruit and educate
      members;

(e)   planning, organising and directing sections charged with
      implementing the organisation's policies, rules and
      regulations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Secretary-general, employers' organisation
Secretary-general, trade union
Senior official, employers' organisation
Senior official, trade union

1143  SENIOR OFFICIALS OF HUMANITARIAN AND OTHER SPECIAL-INTEREST
ORGANISATIONS 
      Senior officials of humanitarian and other special-interest
organisations  determine and formulate policies, rules and
regulations of humanitarian  organisations, sports associations
or other special-interest organisations,  direct their
application, represent these organisations and act on. their 
behalf.

      Tasks include -

(a)   determining and formulating the organisation's policies,
      rules and regulations;

(b)   negotiating on behalf of the organisation, its members and
      relevant special interest groups;

(c)   promoting the interests of the organisation and its members
      before the legislature, government or general public;

(d)   planning and organising campaigns to recruit and educate
      members;

(e)   planning, organising and directing sections charged with
      implementing the organisation's policies, rules and
      regulations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Secretary-general, environment protection organisation
Secretary-general, wild life protection organisation
Senior official, special-interest organisation

2114  GEOLOGISTS AND GEOPHYSICISTS 
     Geologists and geophysicists conduct research, improve or
develop  concepts, theories and operational methods, or apply
scientific knowledge  relating to geology and geophysics in such
fields as oil, gas and mineral  exploitation, water conservation,
civil engineering, telecommunications and  navigation.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods related to geology and
      geophysics;

(b)   studying composition and structure of the earth's crust,
      examining rocks, minerals, fossil remains, etc., to
      determine processes affecting the development of the earth,
      trace evolution of past life and establish nature and
      chronology of geological formations;

(c)   interpreting research data and preparing geological
      reports, maps, charts and diagrams;

(d)   applying results of research to assess development
      potential of mineral, gas and oil deposits and underground
      water resources;

(e)   applying geological knowledge to problems encountered in
      civil engineering projects such as the construction of
      dams, bridges, tunnels and large buildings;

(f)   investigating and measuring seismic, gravitational,
      electrical, thermal and magnetic forces affecting the
      earth;

(g)   investigating and measuring optical and acoustic phenomena
      in the atmosphere;

(h)   estimating weight, size and mass of the earth and
      composition and structure of its interior, and studying the
      nature and activity of volcanoes, glaciers and earthquakes;

(i)   charting the earth's magnetic field and applying this and
      other collected data for purposes of broadcasting and
      navigation;

(j)   studying and measuring physical properties of seas and the
      atmosphere and their inter-relationship, such as the
      exchange of thermal energy;

(k)   locating and determining the nature and extent of oil, gas
      and mineral deposits and of ground-water resources, using
      seismological, gravimetric, magnetic, electrical or
      radiometric methods;

(l)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(m)   performing related tasks;

(n)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Geologist
  Geophysicist

2444  PHILOLOGISTS, TRANSLATORS AND INTERPRETERS 
     Philologists, translators and interpreters study the origin,
development  and structure of languages, and translate or
interpret from one language into  another.

     Tasks include -

(a)   studying relationships between ancient parent languages and
      modern language groups, tracing the origin and evolution
of
      words, grammar and language forms, and presenting findings;

(b)   advising on or preparing language classification systems,
      grammars, dictionaries and similar materials;

(c)   translating from one language into another and ensuring
      that the correct meaning of the original is retained, that
      legal, technical or scientific works are correctly
      rendered, and that the phraseology and terminology of the
      spirit and style of literary works are conveyed as far as
      possible;

(d)   develop methods for the use of computers and other
      instruments to improve productivity and quality of
      translations;

(e)   interpreting from one language into another, in particular
      at conferences, meetings and similar occasions, and
      ensuring that the correct meaning and, as far as possible,
      the spirit of the original are transmitted;

(f)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Interpreter
  Lexicographer
   Philologist
  Translator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Editor - 2451

1110  LEGISLATORS 
      Legislators determine, formulate, and direct policies of
national, state,  regional or local governments, and make,
ratify, amend or repeal laws, public  rules and regulations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   presiding over or participating in the proceedings of
      legislative bodies and administrative councils of national,
      state, regional or local governments or legislative
      assemblies;

(b)   determining, formulating, and directing policies of
      national, state, regional or local governments;

(c)   making, ratifying, amending or repealing laws, public rules
      and regulations within the framework of a Constitution
      determining their powers and fields of jurisdiction;

(d)   serving on government administrative boards or official
      committees;

(e)   promoting the interests of the constituencies which they
      represent;

(f)   as members of the government, directing senior
      administrators and officials of government departments and
      agencies in the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Minister, government

President, government

Prime minister

Secretary, government/legislative

Senator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Secretary, government/non legislative - 1120

1142  SENIOR OFFICIALS OF EMPLOYERS', WORKERS' AND OTHER
ECONOMIC-INTEREST  ORGANISATIONS 
      Senior officials of employers', workers' and other
economic-interest  organisations determine and formulate
policies, rules and regulations of their  respective
organisations, direct their application, represent these 
organisations and act on their behalf.

      Tasks include -

(a)   deciding and formulating the organisation's policies, rules
      and regulations;

(b)   negotiating on behalf of the organisation and its members;

(c)   promoting the interests of the organisation and its members
      before the legislature, government or general public;

(d)   planning and organising campaigns to recruit and educate
      members;

(e)   planning, organising and directing sections charged with
      implementing the organisation's policies, rules and
      regulations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Secretary-general, employers' organisation
Secretary-general, trade union
Senior official, employers' organisation
Senior official, trade union

1120  SENIOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS 

      Senior government officials advise governments on policy
matters, oversee the interpretation and implementation of
government policies and legislation  by government departments
and agencies, represent their country abroad and act  on its
behalf, or carry out similar tasks in intergovernmental
organisations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   advising national, state, regional or local governments on
      policy matters;

(b)   advising on the preparation of government budgets, laws and
      regulations, including amendments;

(c)   overseeing the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies and legislation by government
      departments and agencies;

(d)   representing their country abroad;
         
(e)   performing similar tasks in intergovernmental
      organisations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Administrator, government
Administrator, intergovernmental organisation
Ambassador
Consul-general
Secretary, government/non legislative

1143  SENIOR OFFICIALS OF HUMANITARIAN AND OTHER SPECIAL-INTEREST
ORGANISATIONS 
      Senior officials of humanitarian and other special-interest
organisations  determine and formulate policies, rules and
regulations of humanitarian  organisations, sports associations
or other special-interest organisations,  direct their
application, represent these organisations and act on. their 
behalf.

      Tasks include -

(a)   determining and formulating the organisation's policies,
      rules and regulations;

(b)   negotiating on behalf of the organisation, its members and
      relevant special interest groups;

(c)   promoting the interests of the organisation and its members
      before the legislature, government or general public;

(d)   planning and organising campaigns to recruit and educate
      members;

(e)   planning, organising and directing sections charged with
      implementing the organisation's policies, rules and
      regulations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Secretary-general, environment protection organisation
Secretary-general, wild life protection organisation
Senior official, special-interest organisation

1141  SENIOR OFFICIALS OF POLITICAL-PARTY ORGANISATIONS 
      Senior officials of political-party organisations determine
and formulate  policies, rules and regulations of political-party
organisations, direct their  application, represent these
organisations and act on their behalf.

      Tasks include -

(a)   determining and formulating the political-party's policies,
      rules and regulations;

(b)   negotiating on behalf of the political party and its
      members;

(c)   planning and organising campaigns, on behalf of the
      political party, for the e lection of its candidates to
      political offices;

(d)   planning and organising campaigns to recruit and educate
      political party members;

(e)   planning, organising and directing sections charged with
      implementing the political-party's policies, rules and
      regulations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Leader, political party

President, political party

Senior official, political party

1143  SENIOR OFFICIALS OF HUMANITARIAN AND OTHER SPECIAL-INTEREST
ORGANISATIONS 
      Senior officials of humanitarian and other special-interest
organisations  determine and formulate policies, rules and
regulations of humanitarian  organisations, sports associations
or other special-interest organisations,  direct their
application, represent these organisations and act on. their 
behalf.

      Tasks include -

(a)   determining and formulating the organisation's policies,
      rules and regulations;

(b)   negotiating on behalf of the organisation, its members and
      relevant special interest groups;

(c)   promoting the interests of the organisation and its members
      before the legislature, government or general public;

(d)   planning and organising campaigns to recruit and educate
      members;

(e)   planning, organising and directing sections charged with
      implementing the organisation's policies, rules and
      regulations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Secretary-general, environment protection organisation
Secretary-general, wild life protection organisation
Senior official, special-interest organisation

1142  SENIOR OFFICIALS OF EMPLOYERS', WORKERS' AND OTHER
ECONOMIC-INTEREST  ORGANISATIONS 
      Senior officials of employers', workers' and other
economic-interest  organisations determine and formulate
policies, rules and regulations of their  respective
organisations, direct their application, represent these 
organisations and act on their behalf.

      Tasks include -

(a)   deciding and formulating the organisation's policies, rules
      and regulations;

(b)   negotiating on behalf of the organisation and its members;

(c)   promoting the interests of the organisation and its members
      before the legislature, government or general public;

(d)   planning and organising campaigns to recruit and educate
      members;

(e)   planning, organising and directing sections charged with
      implementing the organisation's policies, rules and
      regulations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Secretary-general, employers' organisation
Secretary-general, trade union
Senior official, employers' organisation
Senior official, trade union

6123  APIARISTS AND SERICULTURISTS
 
     Apiarists and sericulturists plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed, raise and tend insects such as
honey bees, silkworms or other  species, for sale or delivery of
honey, beeswax, silk cocoons, etc., on a  regular basis to
wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of insect products to be
     produced-,

(b)  purchasing insects, growing or purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in buildings, equipment and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending insects and collecting their
     products;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  maintaining buildings, machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Apiarist
  Apiary worker, skilled
  Sericulturist
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

7241  ELECTRICAL MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Electrical mechanics and fitters fit, adjust, install and
repair  electrical machinery and other electrical apparatus and
equipment in  buildings, factories, workshops, or other places.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, adjusting and repairing various kinds of electrical
     machinery and motors, generators, switchgear and control
     apparatus, instruments, or electrical parts of elevators and
     related equipment;

(b)  fitting, adjusting and repairing electrical parts in
     domestic appliances, industrial machines and other
     appliances, or electrical apparatus in aircraft, ships and
     vehicles;

(c)  inspecting and testing manufactured electrical products;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Builder, armature
  Fitter, electrical/generator
  Mechanic, electrical
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler electrical equipment - 8282

7243  ELECTRONICS MECHANICS AND SERVICERS
 

     Electronics mechanics and servicers service and repair radio
and  television equipment, tape recorders, video cassette
recorders, and other  audio-visual equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  examining radio or television equipment, tape recorders,
     video cassette recorders, and other audio-visual equipment,
     replacing defective parts and making adjustments and
     repairs;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Erector, radio aerial
  Mechanic, electronics/audiovisual equipment
  Servicer, electronics equipment

7244  TELEGRAPH AND TELEPHONE INSTALLERS AND SERVICERS
 

     Telegraph and telephone installers and servicers install,
service and  repair telephone and telegraph equipment in central
sites or individual  locations.

     Tasks include -

(a)  installing, servicing and repairing telephone and telegraph
     equipment in central sites or individual locations;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Installer, telephone
  Mechanic, telegraph
  Servicer, telephone
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Fitter, electronics/telecommunications equipment - 7242

7135  GLAZIERS
 

     Glaziers cut, fit and set glass in windows, doors, shop
fronts and other  frames.

     Tasks include -

(a)  selecting glass panes, cutting them to measure and fixing
     them in windows, doors and partitions of buildings;

(b)  fastening glass panes in skylights;

(c)  installing flat or curved glass in shop fronts, swing-doors,
     show-cases, portholes or other openings;

(d)  cutting, assembling and installing pieces of glass in lead
     or copper framework to form decorative windows and panels;

(e)  installing ordinary or shatter-proof glass panels in
     windows, doors and windscreens of vehicles;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Glazier
  Glazier, roofing
  Glazier, vehicle

7313  JEWELLERY AND PRECIOUS-METAL WORKERS
 

     Jewellery and precious-metal workers make and repair
jewellery and  precious metalware, cut and set gems and engrave
designs on jewellery and  precious metal articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  casting jewellery and other non-ferrous metal articles by
     hand;

(b)  making complete jewellery articles such as rings, brooches
     and bracelets;

(c)  cutting and polishing gems and setting them in jewellery
     articles;

(d)  making and repairing precious metalware;

(e)  rolling and beating precious metals; engraving letters and
     designs on jewellery and precious metalware;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, jewellery
  Goldsmith
  Jeweller
  Setter, gem
  Silversmith

7135  GLAZIERS
 

     Glaziers cut, fit and set glass in windows, doors, shop
fronts and other  frames.

     Tasks include -

(a)  selecting glass panes, cutting them to measure and fixing
     them in windows, doors and partitions of buildings;

(b)  fastening glass panes in skylights;

(c)  installing flat or curved glass in shop fronts, swing-doors,
     show-cases, portholes or other openings;

(d)  cutting, assembling and installing pieces of glass in lead
     or copper framework to form decorative windows and panels;

(e)  installing ordinary or shatter-proof glass panels in
     windows, doors and windscreens of vehicles;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Glazier
  Glazier, roofing
  Glazier, vehicle

7313  JEWELLERY AND PRECIOUS-METAL WORKERS
 

     Jewellery and precious-metal workers make and repair
jewellery and  precious metalware, cut and set gems and engrave
designs on jewellery and  precious metal articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  casting jewellery and other non-ferrous metal articles by
     hand;

(b)  making complete jewellery articles such as rings, brooches
     and bracelets;

(c)  cutting and polishing gems and setting them in jewellery
     articles;

(d)  making and repairing precious metalware;

(e)  rolling and beating precious metals; engraving letters and
     designs on jewellery and precious metalware;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, jewellery
  Goldsmith
  Jeweller
  Setter, gem
  Silversmith

7432  WEAVERS, KNITTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

  
     Weavers, knitters and related workers spin and wind yarn by
hand, weave  materials on hand looms, make carpets by using a
knotting technique, knit  garment fabrics by hand or hand-
operated machine or perform similar  manufacturing tasks by hand
or hand-operated machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  spinning and winding yarn by hand;

(b)  drawing warp threads into loom by hand;

(c)  weaving plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpet or
     other fabrics on hand looms;

(d)  making carpets by using a knotting technique;

(e)  knitting garments and other articles on hand-operated
     machine or by hand;

(f)  crocheting or making braid by hand;

(g)  making nets by hand;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Knitter
  Spinner, thread and yarn
  Threader, loom
  Weaver, carpet
  Weaver cloth
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, knitting - 8262
  Machine-operator, weaving - 8262

7223    MACHINE-TOOL SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool setters and setter-operators set for operators,
or set and  operate, various machine tools working to fine
tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting one or more types of machine tools for operators to
     produce metal articles in standardised series;

(b)  setting and operating a variety of machine tools;

(c)  setting and operating particular types of metalworking
     machines, such as lathe, milling, planing, boring, drilling,
     grinding or honing machines, including multipurpose
     numerically controlled metalworking machines;

(d)  performing similar tasks when machining plastics and other
     metal substitutes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Setter, machine tool
  Setter-operator, drilling machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, grinding machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, lathe/metalworking
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, drilling/metal - 8211
  Machine-operator, grinding/metal 8211
  Machine-operator, machine tool - 8211

7132  FLOOR LAYERS AND TILE SETTERS
 

     Floor layers and tile setters install, maintain and repair
parquet and  other kinds of flooring, or they cover floors, walls
and other surfaces with tiles or mosaic panels for decorative or
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing floor areas for covering with parquet, tiles or
     other materials;

(b)  assembling parquetry pieces or other materials and laying
     them on floors according to design and other specifications;

(c)  preparing wall areas for covering with tiles or other
     materials for decorative or other purposes such as
     acoustical insulation;

(d)  setting tiles and constructing and laying mosaic panels to
     walls, floors and other surfaces;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Parquetry worker 
 Setter, marble 
 Setter, tile

7223    MACHINE-TOOL SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool setters and setter-operators set for operators,
or set and  operate, various machine tools working to fine
tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting one or more types of machine tools for operators to
     produce metal articles in standardised series;

(b)  setting and operating a variety of machine tools;

(c)  setting and operating particular types of metalworking
     machines, such as lathe, milling, planing, boring, drilling,
     grinding or honing machines, including multipurpose
     numerically controlled metalworking machines;

(d)  performing similar tasks when machining plastics and other
     metal substitutes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Setter, machine tool
  Setter-operator, drilling machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, grinding machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, lathe/metalworking
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, drilling/metal - 8211
  Machine-operator, grinding/metal 8211
  Machine-operator, machine tool - 8211

7341  COMPOSITORS, TYPESETTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Compositors, typesetters and related workers set and arrange
printing  type by hand or machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting type by hand and printing copies with simple
     machines;

(b)  operating linotype, monotype and typecasting machines;

(c)  arranging set-up of type and spacing material and
     illustration blocks to make pages;

(d)  arranging pages in sequence for printing;

(e)  operating electronic key-boarding machines which enable
     characters to be converted into film, sensitised tape or
     paper for subsequent photo plate-making;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Compositor, printing
  Printer
  Typesetter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Press-operator, printing/cylinder 8251

7132  FLOOR LAYERS AND TILE SETTERS
 

     Floor layers and tile setters install, maintain and repair
parquet and  other kinds of flooring, or they cover floors, walls
and other surfaces with tiles or mosaic panels for decorative or
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing floor areas for covering with parquet, tiles or
     other materials;

(b)  assembling parquetry pieces or other materials and laying
     them on floors according to design and other specifications;

(c)  preparing wall areas for covering with tiles or other
     materials for decorative or other purposes such as
     acoustical insulation;

(d)  setting tiles and constructing and laying mosaic panels to
     walls, floors and other surfaces;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Parquetry worker 
 Setter, marble 
 Setter, tile

7423  WOODWORKING-MACHINE SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Woodworking-machine setters and setter-operators set or set
and operate  woodworking machines, such as precision sawing,
shaping, planing, boring, turning and woodcarving machines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting and adjusting various kinds of machines for
     operation by others;

(b)  setting and operating one or several types of woodworking
     machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Sawyer, precision woodworking
  Setter, woodworking machine
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine
  Turner, wood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator woodworking - 8240
  Setter-operator, metalworking machine - 7223

7223    MACHINE-TOOL SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool setters and setter-operators set for operators,
or set and  operate, various machine tools working to fine
tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting one or more types of machine tools for operators to
     produce metal articles in standardised series;

(b)  setting and operating a variety of machine tools;

(c)  setting and operating particular types of metalworking
     machines, such as lathe, milling, planing, boring, drilling,
     grinding or honing machines, including multipurpose
     numerically controlled metalworking machines;

(d)  performing similar tasks when machining plastics and other
     metal substitutes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Setter, machine tool
  Setter-operator, drilling machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, grinding machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, lathe/metalworking
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, drilling/metal - 8211
  Machine-operator, grinding/metal 8211
  Machine-operator, machine tool - 8211

7423  WOODWORKING-MACHINE SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Woodworking-machine setters and setter-operators set or set
and operate  woodworking machines, such as precision sawing,
shaping, planing, boring, turning and woodcarving machines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting and adjusting various kinds of machines for
     operation by others;

(b)  setting and operating one or several types of woodworking
     machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Sawyer, precision woodworking
  Setter, woodworking machine
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine
  Turner, wood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator woodworking - 8240
  Setter-operator, metalworking machine - 7223

7341  COMPOSITORS, TYPESETTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Compositors, typesetters and related workers set and arrange
printing  type by hand or machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting type by hand and printing copies with simple
     machines;

(b)  operating linotype, monotype and typecasting machines;

(c)  arranging set-up of type and spacing material and
     illustration blocks to make pages;

(d)  arranging pages in sequence for printing;

(e)  operating electronic key-boarding machines which enable
     characters to be converted into film, sensitised tape or
     paper for subsequent photo plate-making;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Compositor, printing
  Printer
  Typesetter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Press-operator, printing/cylinder 8251

7223    MACHINE-TOOL SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool setters and setter-operators set for operators,
or set and  operate, various machine tools working to fine
tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting one or more types of machine tools for operators to
     produce metal articles in standardised series;

(b)  setting and operating a variety of machine tools;

(c)  setting and operating particular types of metalworking
     machines, such as lathe, milling, planing, boring, drilling,
     grinding or honing machines, including multipurpose
     numerically controlled metalworking machines;

(d)  performing similar tasks when machining plastics and other
     metal substitutes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Setter, machine tool
  Setter-operator, drilling machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, grinding machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, lathe/metalworking
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, drilling/metal - 8211
  Machine-operator, grinding/metal 8211
  Machine-operator, machine tool - 8211

7423  WOODWORKING-MACHINE SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Woodworking-machine setters and setter-operators set or set
and operate  woodworking machines, such as precision sawing,
shaping, planing, boring, turning and woodcarving machines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting and adjusting various kinds of machines for
     operation by others;

(b)  setting and operating one or several types of woodworking
     machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Sawyer, precision woodworking
  Setter, woodworking machine
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine
  Turner, wood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator woodworking - 8240
  Setter-operator, metalworking machine - 7223

7223    MACHINE-TOOL SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool setters and setter-operators set for operators,
or set and  operate, various machine tools working to fine
tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting one or more types of machine tools for operators to
     produce metal articles in standardised series;

(b)  setting and operating a variety of machine tools;

(c)  setting and operating particular types of metalworking
     machines, such as lathe, milling, planing, boring, drilling,
     grinding or honing machines, including multipurpose
     numerically controlled metalworking machines;

(d)  performing similar tasks when machining plastics and other
     metal substitutes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Setter, machine tool
  Setter-operator, drilling machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, grinding machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, lathe/metalworking
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, drilling/metal - 8211
  Machine-operator, grinding/metal 8211
  Machine-operator, machine tool - 8211

7423  WOODWORKING-MACHINE SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Woodworking-machine setters and setter-operators set or set
and operate  woodworking machines, such as precision sawing,
shaping, planing, boring, turning and woodcarving machines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting and adjusting various kinds of machines for
     operation by others;

(b)  setting and operating one or several types of woodworking
     machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Sawyer, precision woodworking
  Setter, woodworking machine
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine
  Turner, wood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator woodworking - 8240
  Setter-operator, metalworking machine - 7223

7223    MACHINE-TOOL SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool setters and setter-operators set for operators,
or set and  operate, various machine tools working to fine
tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting one or more types of machine tools for operators to
     produce metal articles in standardised series;

(b)  setting and operating a variety of machine tools;

(c)  setting and operating particular types of metalworking
     machines, such as lathe, milling, planing, boring, drilling,
     grinding or honing machines, including multipurpose
     numerically controlled metalworking machines;

(d)  performing similar tasks when machining plastics and other
     metal substitutes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Setter, machine tool
  Setter-operator, drilling machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, grinding machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, lathe/metalworking
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, drilling/metal - 8211
  Machine-operator, grinding/metal 8211
  Machine-operator, machine tool - 8211

7322  GLASS-MAKERS, CUTTERS, GRINDERS AND FINISHERS
 

     Glass-makers, cutters, grinders and finishers blow, mould,
press and roll  shapes from molten glass and cut, grind and
polish glass.

     Tasks include -

(a)  shaping molten glass by means of blowpipe, hand moulding,
     heating and bending;

(b)  heating, moulding and pressing optical glass to make lens
     blanks;

(c)  grinding and polishing lens blanks;

(d)  grinding and bevelling edges of glass;

(e)  cutting sheet glass with hand tools and sawing prisms and
     other shapes from optical glass blocks;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blower, glass
  Cutter, glass
  Finisher, glass
  Grinder, glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Furnace-operator, glass production - 8131

7223    MACHINE-TOOL SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool setters and setter-operators set for operators,
or set and  operate, various machine tools working to fine
tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting one or more types of machine tools for operators to
     produce metal articles in standardised series;

(b)  setting and operating a variety of machine tools;

(c)  setting and operating particular types of metalworking
     machines, such as lathe, milling, planing, boring, drilling,
     grinding or honing machines, including multipurpose
     numerically controlled metalworking machines;

(d)  performing similar tasks when machining plastics and other
     metal substitutes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Setter, machine tool
  Setter-operator, drilling machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, grinding machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, lathe/metalworking
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, drilling/metal - 8211
  Machine-operator, grinding/metal 8211
  Machine-operator, machine tool - 8211

7113  STONE SPLITTERS, CUTTERS AND CARVERS
 



     Stone splitters, cutters and carvers break quarried stone
slabs or  blocks, or by using hand or hand-powered tools cut,
shape and finish stone for  building, ornamental, monumental and
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving wedges into quarried stone to break it into slabs
     or blocks;

(b)  selecting and grading slabs and blocks of granite, marble,
     and other stone;

(c)  cutting, shaping and finishing building and monumental stone
     such as granite or marble by using hand or hand-powered
     tools;

(d)  making patterns and marking shapes on stone for subsequent
     sawing, planing, drilling and other dressing and cutting
     operations;

(e)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     blocks used for monuments or memorials;

(f)  setting stone in the erection of monuments and memorials;

(g)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     used for decorative facings on buildings-

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carver, stone
  Cutter, stone
  Mason, monument
  Splitter, stone
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, carving/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, cutting/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, splitting/stone 8112
  Sculptor - 2452
  Stonemason, construction - 7122

7423  WOODWORKING-MACHINE SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Woodworking-machine setters and setter-operators set or set
and operate  woodworking machines, such as precision sawing,
shaping, planing, boring, turning and woodcarving machines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting and adjusting various kinds of machines for
     operation by others;

(b)  setting and operating one or several types of woodworking
     machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Sawyer, precision woodworking
  Setter, woodworking machine
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine
  Turner, wood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator woodworking - 8240
  Setter-operator, metalworking machine - 7223

7223    MACHINE-TOOL SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool setters and setter-operators set for operators,
or set and  operate, various machine tools working to fine
tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting one or more types of machine tools for operators to
     produce metal articles in standardised series;

(b)  setting and operating a variety of machine tools;

(c)  setting and operating particular types of metalworking
     machines, such as lathe, milling, planing, boring, drilling,
     grinding or honing machines, including multipurpose
     numerically controlled metalworking machines;

(d)  performing similar tasks when machining plastics and other
     metal substitutes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Setter, machine tool
  Setter-operator, drilling machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, grinding machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, lathe/metalworking
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, drilling/metal - 8211
  Machine-operator, grinding/metal 8211
  Machine-operator, machine tool - 8211

7423  WOODWORKING-MACHINE SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Woodworking-machine setters and setter-operators set or set
and operate  woodworking machines, such as precision sawing,
shaping, planing, boring, turning and woodcarving machines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting and adjusting various kinds of machines for
     operation by others;

(b)  setting and operating one or several types of woodworking
     machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Sawyer, precision woodworking
  Setter, woodworking machine
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine
  Turner, wood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator woodworking - 8240
  Setter-operator, metalworking machine - 7223

7223    MACHINE-TOOL SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool setters and setter-operators set for operators,
or set and  operate, various machine tools working to fine
tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting one or more types of machine tools for operators to
     produce metal articles in standardised series;

(b)  setting and operating a variety of machine tools;

(c)  setting and operating particular types of metalworking
     machines, such as lathe, milling, planing, boring, drilling,
     grinding or honing machines, including multipurpose
     numerically controlled metalworking machines;

(d)  performing similar tasks when machining plastics and other
     metal substitutes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Setter, machine tool
  Setter-operator, drilling machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, grinding machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, lathe/metalworking
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, drilling/metal - 8211
  Machine-operator, grinding/metal 8211
  Machine-operator, machine tool - 8211

7423  WOODWORKING-MACHINE SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Woodworking-machine setters and setter-operators set or set
and operate  woodworking machines, such as precision sawing,
shaping, planing, boring, turning and woodcarving machines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting and adjusting various kinds of machines for
     operation by others;

(b)  setting and operating one or several types of woodworking
     machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Sawyer, precision woodworking
  Setter, woodworking machine
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine
  Turner, wood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator woodworking - 8240
  Setter-operator, metalworking machine - 7223

7223    MACHINE-TOOL SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool setters and setter-operators set for operators,
or set and  operate, various machine tools working to fine
tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting one or more types of machine tools for operators to
     produce metal articles in standardised series;

(b)  setting and operating a variety of machine tools;

(c)  setting and operating particular types of metalworking
     machines, such as lathe, milling, planing, boring, drilling,
     grinding or honing machines, including multipurpose
     numerically controlled metalworking machines;

(d)  performing similar tasks when machining plastics and other
     metal substitutes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Setter, machine tool
  Setter-operator, drilling machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, grinding machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, lathe/metalworking
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, drilling/metal - 8211
  Machine-operator, grinding/metal 8211
  Machine-operator, machine tool - 8211

7423  WOODWORKING-MACHINE SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Woodworking-machine setters and setter-operators set or set
and operate  woodworking machines, such as precision sawing,
shaping, planing, boring, turning and woodcarving machines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting and adjusting various kinds of machines for
     operation by others;

(b)  setting and operating one or several types of woodworking
     machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Sawyer, precision woodworking
  Setter, woodworking machine
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine
  Turner, wood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator woodworking - 8240
  Setter-operator, metalworking machine - 7223

7212    WELDERS AND FLAMECUTTERS
 

     Welders and flame cutters weld and cut metal parts using gas
flame, or an  electric arc and other sources of heat to melt and
cut, or to melt and fuse  metal.

     Tasks include -

(a)  welding metal parts using gas flame, or an electric arc,
     thermite compound or other methods;

(b)  operating resistance-welding machines;

(c)  using blowtorch to make and repair lead linings, pipes,
     floors and other lead fixtures;

(d)  brazing metal parts together;

(e)  cutting metal pieces using gas flame or an electric arc;

(f)  joining metal parts by hand soldering;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Brazier
  Flamecutter
  Welder

7423  WOODWORKING-MACHINE SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Woodworking-machine setters and setter-operators set or set
and operate  woodworking machines, such as precision sawing,
shaping, planing, boring, turning and woodcarving machines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting and adjusting various kinds of machines for
     operation by others;

(b)  setting and operating one or several types of woodworking
     machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Sawyer, precision woodworking
  Setter, woodworking machine
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine
  Turner, wood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator woodworking - 8240
  Setter-operator, metalworking machine - 7223

7436  SEWERS, EMBROIDERERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Sewers, embroiderers and related workers sew together,
repair and  decorate garments, gloves and other products of
textile, fur, leather and  other materials by hand or by using
simple sewing machines, and perform  various related tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  performing various sewing tasks in making, altering and
     repairing articles of textile, leather and other materials;

(b)  embroidering decorative designs on garments or materials;

(c)  sewing sails, tents, awnings and similar articles;

(d)  assembling and covering umbrellas;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Embroiderer
  Maker, umbrella
  Sewer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Dressmaker - 7433
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, sewing - 8263

9141  BUILDING CARETAKERS
 

     Building caretakers take care of apartment houses, hotels,
offices,  churches and other buildings and maintain them in a
clean and orderly  condition.

     Tasks include -

(a)  participating in cleaning, simple repairs and maintenance
     of building interiors;

(b)  tending furnaces and boilers to ensure provision of heat and
     hot water;

(c)  regulating conduct of tenants and visitors in such matters
     as noise abatement or misuse of property;

(d)  providing small services to absent tenants such as accepting
     deliveries on their behalf or providing requested
     information to callers;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Caretaker, building/cleaning
  Concierge, building
  Janitor
  Sexton

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

3411  SECURITIES AND FINANCE DEALERS AND BROKERS 
     Securities and finance dealers and brokers buy and sell
securities,  stocks, bonds and other financial instruments, and
deal on the foreign  exchange on spot or on futures markets, on
behalf of their own company or for  customers on a commission
basis and recommend transactions to clients or  senior
management.     Tasks include -

(a)   obtaining information about the financial circumstances of
      customers and companies in which investments may be made;

(b)   analysing market trends for securities, bonds, stocks and
      other financial instruments, including foreign exchange;

(c)   informing prospective customers about market conditions and
      prospects;

(d)   advising on and participating in the negotiation of terms
      for, and organisation of, loans and placement of stocks and
      bonds in the financial market to raise capital for
      customers;

(e)   recording and transmitting buy and sell orders for
      securities, stocks, bonds or other financial instruments
      and for foreign exchange for future or immediate delivery;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:  Broker, foreign exchange
  Broker, securities
  Broker, stocks and shares

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:  Clerk, securities - 4122

7224  METAL WHEEL-GRINDERS, POLISHERS AND TOOL SHARPENERS
 

     Metal wheel-grinders, polishers and tool sharpeners grind
and polish  metal surfaces and sharpen tools.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating fixed or portable buffing and polishing machines;

(b)  sharpening cutting tools and instruments using grinding
     wheel or mechanically operated grinding machines;

(c)  repairing, adjusting and sharpening saw blades and metal
     teeth of cylinders in textile carding machines;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Finisher, metal
  Grinder, tool
  Polisher, metal
  Sharpener, knife
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal - 8223
  Machine-operator polishing/metal -8223

7441  PELT DRESSERS, TANNERS AND FELLMONGERS
 

     Pelt dressers, tanners and fellmongers prepare fur- and
wool-bearing  pelts for making garments and other products, and
make leather from hides and  skins.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sorting and grading pelts, hides and skins;

(b)  removing flesh and fat from pelts before curing;

(c)  removing flesh and hair from hides;

(d)  removing long, coarse hair from pelts and trimming
     underlying hair to even length;

(e)  operating machine to split hides edgeways;

(f)  treating hides to convert them into leather;

(g)  applying dyes to fur pelts;

(h)  dressing and applying dyes and stains to leather;

(i)  stretching and smoothing dressed pelts;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fellmonger
  Grader, pelt
  Tanner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, tanning - 8265

6121  DAIRY AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS
 
     Dairy and livestock producers plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed,  raise and tend livestock such
as cattle, sheep, pigs, goats,  horses, dogs or cats to be used
as working, sporting, or pet animals, as well  as for meat, milk,
hair, hides and other products, for sale or delivery on a 
regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of livestock and livestock
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing animals, producing and purchasing fodder and
     other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in grazing land, buildings, equipment
     and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending livestock;

(e)  milking animals and shearing sheep;

(f)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market;

(g)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(h)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(i)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, cat
  Breeder, dog
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock
  Farmer, dairy
  Farmer, horse raising
  Farmer, livestock
  Farmer, sheep
  Farmer, sheep/astrakhan
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

7213  SHEET-METAL WORKERS
 

     Sheet-metal workers make, install and repair articles and
parts of  articles of sheet metal such as sheet steel, copper,
tin, brass, aluminium,  zinc or galvanised iron.

     Tasks include -

(a)  marking sheet metal for cutting and shaping;

(b)  making and repairing household utensils and other articles
     in tin, copper and light alloys, or ornamental articles and
     fittings;

(c)  making and repairing boilers, tanks, vats and similar
     containers;

(d)  installing and repairing sheet-metal parts of vehicles and
     aircraft;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Boiler smith
  Coppersmith
  Sheet-metal worker
  Tinsmith

6121  DAIRY AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS
 
     Dairy and livestock producers plan and carry out the
necessary operations  to breed,  raise and tend livestock such
as cattle, sheep, pigs, goats,  horses, dogs or cats to be used
as working, sporting, or pet animals, as well  as for meat, milk,
hair, hides and other products, for sale or delivery on a 
regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations or at
markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of livestock and livestock
     products to be produced;

(b)  purchasing animals, producing and purchasing fodder and
     other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in grazing land, buildings, equipment
     and machinery;

(d)  breeding, raising and tending livestock;

(e)  milking animals and shearing sheep;

(f)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market;

(g)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(h)  maintaining farm buildings, machinery and equipment;

(i)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, cat
  Breeder, dog
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock
  Farmer, dairy
  Farmer, horse raising
  Farmer, livestock
  Farmer, sheep
  Farmer, sheep/astrakhan
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210

8223  METAL FINISHING-, PLATING AND COATING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Metal finishing-, plating- and coating-machine operators
operate and  monitor equipment which finishes, plates and coats
metal articles or parts, in  order to give them improved
resistance to corrosion and abrasion, for  decorative purposes,
or to impart electrical or magnetic properties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which cleans metal
     articles in preparation for electroplating, galvanising,
     enamelling or similar processes;

(b)  operating and monitoring electroplating equipment;

(c)  operating and monitoring hot-dip equipment used to coat iron
     and steel products

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which automatically coat
     wire with non ferrous metal

(e)  operating and monitoring equipment used to spray molten
     metal or other substances on metal products to provide a
     protective or decorative coating or to build up worn or
     damaged surfaces;

(f)  operating and monitoring equipment used to impart a rust-
     resistant finish to metal articles by treating them with
     chemicals and heating them;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, coating/metal
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal
  Machine-operator, plating/metal

9120  SHOE CLEANING AND OTHER STREET SERVICES ELEMENTARY OCCUPATIONS
 

     Shoe cleaning and other street services elementary
occupations usually  include cleaning shoes, washing car windows,
running errands and providing  other on-the-spot street services.
(a)  obtaining the materials necessary to perform cleaning
     services;

(b)  cleaning and polishing shoes;

(c)  cleaning and polishing car windows;

(d)  running errands;

(e)  receiving immediate payment;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Errand boy
  Shoe-polisher
  Washer, hand/street (car windows)

3142  SHIPS' DECK OFFICERS AND PILOTS 
     Ships' deck officers and pilots command and navigate ships
and similar  vessels, and perform related functions on shore.

     Tasks include -

(a)   commanding and navigating ship or similar vessel at sea or
      on inland waterways;

(b)   controlling and participating in deck and bridge-watch
      activities;

(c)   navigating vessels into and out of ports and through
      channels, straits and other waters where special knowledge
      is required;

(d)   ensuring safe loading and unloading of cargo and observance
      of safety regulations and procedures by crew and
      passengers'.

(e)   performing technical supervision of maintenance and repair
      of ship to ensure compliance with specifications and
      regulations;

(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices relating to
      ship's operation and navigation in order to identify and
      solve problems arising in the course of their work;

(g)   ordering ship's stores and recruiting crew as required and
      maintaining record of operations;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Captain ship/sea
  Pilot, ship
  Skipper, yacht

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Sailor - 8340

7214  STRUCTURAL-METAL PREPARERS AND ERECTORS
 

     Structural-metal preparers and erectors shape, assemble and
erect heavy  metal girders and plates to form structures and
frameworks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  marking metal members as a guide when drilling, cutting, and
     shaping them for use in buildings, ships and other
     structures;

(b)  drilling, cutting and shaping structural steel in a
     workshop;

(c)  erecting steel members for buildings, bridges and other
     constructions;

(d)  assembling and erecting the framework and other metal parts
     of ships' structures;

(e)  shaping and fitting structural-steel plates of ships under
     construction or repair;

(f)  riveting structural-metal members by hand, machine or
     pneumatic riveter;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Erector, structural metal
  Preparer, structural metal
  Riveter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, rivet production 8211

7124  CARPENTERS AND JOINERS
 

     Carpenters and joiners cut, shape, assemble, erect, maintain
and repair various types of wooden structures and fittings.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, altering and repairing structural and other woodwork
     at a work-bench and on a construction site;

(b)  constructing, erecting and installing heavy-framed wooden
     structures on building sites;

(c)  fitting, assembling and altering internal and external
     fixtures of buildings, such as walls, doors, door and window
     frames, facings and panelling;

(d)  making, repairing and fitting scenic equipment for
     theatrical 
     performances, motion picture or television productions;

(e)  constructing, assembling, altering and repairing wooden
     fixtures and fittings in train coaches, aircraft, ships,
     boats, floats, pontoons and other vehicles;

(f)  cutting, shaping, fitting and assembling wooden parts,
     mainly at a work-bench;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carpenter
  Joiner
  Shipwright, wood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cabinet-maker - 7422
  Wheel-wright - 7422

9120  SHOE CLEANING AND OTHER STREET SERVICES ELEMENTARY OCCUPATIONS
 

     Shoe cleaning and other street services elementary
occupations usually  include cleaning shoes, washing car windows,
running errands and providing  other on-the-spot street services.
(a)  obtaining the materials necessary to perform cleaning
     services;

(b)  cleaning and polishing shoes;

(c)  cleaning and polishing car windows;

(d)  running errands;

(e)  receiving immediate payment;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Errand boy
  Shoe-polisher
  Washer, hand/street (car windows)

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

9120  SHOE CLEANING AND OTHER STREET SERVICES ELEMENTARY OCCUPATIONS
 

     Shoe cleaning and other street services elementary
occupations usually  include cleaning shoes, washing car windows,
running errands and providing  other on-the-spot street services.
(a)  obtaining the materials necessary to perform cleaning
     services;

(b)  cleaning and polishing shoes;

(c)  cleaning and polishing car windows;

(d)  running errands;

(e)  receiving immediate payment;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Errand boy
  Shoe-polisher
  Washer, hand/street (car windows)

3117  MINING AND METALLURGICAL TECHNICIANS
 
     Mining and metallurgical technicians perform technical tasks
connected  with metallurgical research to develop improved
methods of extracting solid  minerals, oil and gas, as well as
with the design, construction, operation,  maintenance and repair
of mines and mine installations, systems for  transporting and
storing oil and natural gas, and plant for extracting metals 
from their ores and refining metal.

     Tasks include -

(a)   providing technical assistance connected with research and
      the development of processes to determine the properties
      of metal and new alloys, or of improved methods for the
      extraction of solid minerals, oil and natural gas, and for
      transporting and storing oil and natural gas, or testing
      prototypes;

(b)   providing technical assistance in geological and
      topographical surveys, and in the design and layout of oil,
      natural gas and mineral ore extraction and transport
      systems, and processing and refining plant for minerals and
      metals;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for mineral, oil and natural
      gas exploration, extraction and transport projects and
      plant, and for processing and mineral refining plant
      according to the specifications given;

(d)   providing technical supervision of the construction,
      installation, operation, maintenance and repair of mineral
      ore, oil and natural gas exploration, extraction, transport
      and storage installations and mineral processing plant to
      ensure satisfactory performance and compliance with
      specifications and regulations;

(e)   applying technical knowledge of mining, of oil and natural
      gas extraction, transport and storage, and of metallurgical
      principles and practices in order to identity and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, engineering/mining
  Technician, metallurgy/extractive

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Machine-operator, drilling/mine - 8111
  Miner - 7111
  Quarrier - 7111

7124  CARPENTERS AND JOINERS
 

     Carpenters and joiners cut, shape, assemble, erect, maintain
and repair various types of wooden structures and fittings.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, altering and repairing structural and other woodwork
     at a work-bench and on a construction site;

(b)  constructing, erecting and installing heavy-framed wooden
     structures on building sites;

(c)  fitting, assembling and altering internal and external
     fixtures of buildings, such as walls, doors, door and window
     frames, facings and panelling;

(d)  making, repairing and fitting scenic equipment for
     theatrical 
     performances, motion picture or television productions;

(e)  constructing, assembling, altering and repairing wooden
     fixtures and fittings in train coaches, aircraft, ships,
     boats, floats, pontoons and other vehicles;

(f)  cutting, shaping, fitting and assembling wooden parts,
     mainly at a work-bench;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carpenter
  Joiner
  Shipwright, wood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cabinet-maker - 7422
  Wheel-wright - 7422

1314  GENERAL MANAGERS IN WHOLESALE AND RETAIL TRADE 
      General managers in wholesale and retail trade head small
wholesale or  retail businesses and, on their own behalf or on
behalf of the proprietor,  plan, direct and coordinate the
activities of the business, with the  assistance of no more than
one other manager and some non-managerial help.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;


(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here':

 General manager, retail trade 

 General manager, wholesale trade 

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Department manager, production and operations/retail
         trade - 1224 

 Managing director, enterprise/wholesale trade -
         1210 

7129  BUILDING FRAME AND RELATED TRADES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers building frame and related trades
workers not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 712, Building
frame and related trades  workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who perform
miscellaneous  construction and building maintenance tasks.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  performing miscellaneous construction and building
     maintenance work on structures such as office buildings,
     apartment houses, factories and similar establishments in
     good repair;

(b)  performing construction, maintenance or repair work at
     unusual heights;

(c)  erecting temporary metal or wooden scaffolding on building
     sites;

(d)  demolishing buildings and other structures;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Demolition worker
  Housebuilder, non-traditional materials
  Scaffolder
  Steeplejack
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Labourer, construction/buildings 9313
  Labourer, demolition - 9313

7113  STONE SPLITTERS, CUTTERS AND CARVERS
 



     Stone splitters, cutters and carvers break quarried stone
slabs or  blocks, or by using hand or hand-powered tools cut,
shape and finish stone for  building, ornamental, monumental and
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving wedges into quarried stone to break it into slabs
     or blocks;

(b)  selecting and grading slabs and blocks of granite, marble,
     and other stone;

(c)  cutting, shaping and finishing building and monumental stone
     such as granite or marble by using hand or hand-powered
     tools;

(d)  making patterns and marking shapes on stone for subsequent
     sawing, planing, drilling and other dressing and cutting
     operations;

(e)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     blocks used for monuments or memorials;

(f)  setting stone in the erection of monuments and memorials;

(g)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     used for decorative facings on buildings-

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carver, stone
  Cutter, stone
  Mason, monument
  Splitter, stone
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, carving/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, cutting/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, splitting/stone 8112
  Sculptor - 2452
  Stonemason, construction - 7122

7112  SHOTFIRERS AND BLASTERS
 

     Shotfirers and blasters determine location and force of
explosions  required, charge and detonate explosives to fragment
or dislodge coal, ores,  rock or other solid minerals in mines
or quarries, or to clear building sites  and similar places.

     Tasks include -

(a)  ensuring observance of workplace safety procedures and
     regulations;

(b)  determining location of explosions required and giving
     instructions on holes to be drilled;

(c)  deciding on force required and placing correct quantity of
     explosives, and preparing blasting site;

(d)  firing blasting-charge in mines or quarries;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blaster
  Shotfirer

9312  CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE LABOURERS:  ROADS, DAMS AND SIMILAR  CONSTRUCTIONS
 

     Construction and maintenance labourers perform simple and
routine tasks  in connection with the building and maintenance
of  roads, dams and similar  constructions.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging and filling holes and trenches, spreading gravel and
     related materials and performing other tasks related to the
     building and maintenance of railway tracks and roads;

(b)  carrying bricks and mortar to bricklayer or helping in other
     ways in the building of dams and similar constructions;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, construction
  Labourer, maintenance/dams

8312  RAILWAY BRAKERS, SIGNALLERS AND SHUNTERS
 

     Railway brakers, signallers and shunters take charge of and
safeguard  railway freight trains during runs, control the
movement of railway traffic by  operating signals, switch rolling
stock and make up trains in railway yards,  make up trains for
hauling in mines and control their movement.

     Tasks include -

(a)  taking charge of and safeguarding freight train during run;

(b)  controlling flow of railway traffic over section of line by
     operating signals and switches from control panel or signal
     box;

(c)  switching and coupling rolling stock in railway yards and
     sidings in accordance with orders about loading, unloading
     and make-up of trains;

(d)  making up trains for hauling by locomotive or cable and
     directing their movement along haulageways in a mine or
     quarry;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Braker, railway
  Shunter, railway
  Signaller, railway

7123  CONCRETE PLACERS, CONCRETE FINISHERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Concrete placers, concrete finishers and related workers
erect reinforced  concrete frameworks and structures, make forms
for moulding concrete,  reinforce concrete surfaces, cement
openings in walls or casings for wells,  finish and repair cement
surfaces and carry out terrazzo work.
     
     Tasks include -

(a)  constructing and repairing reinforced concrete floors,
     walls, tanks, silos and other concrete structures;

(b)  making shuttering or assembling prefabricated forms for
     moulding concrete;

(c)  cementing openings in walls or casings for wells;

(d)  finishing and smoothing surfaces of concrete structures;

(e)  applying a durable, smooth surfacing composed of cement,
     sand pigment and marble particles to floors, known as a
     terrazzo finish;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Finisher, cement
  Placer, concrete
  Terrazzo worker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, finishing/concrete 8212
  Operator, road surface laying machinery - 8332

7324  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED DECORATIVE PAINTERS
 

     Glass, ceramics and related decorative painters decorate
articles made of  wood, metal, textiles, glass, ceramics and
other materials, and plan, lay out  and paint letters and designs
to make signs.

     Tasks include -

(a)  painting designs on articles with a brush, by spraying, or
     by transferring designs using stencils, transfers, rubber
     stamps and other means;

(b)  applying, for decorative purposes, paint, glaze, enamel,
     stain, varnish, lacquer and similar materials on articles
     by spraying or dipping;

(c)  coating mirror glass with silver solutions;

(d)  laying out and painting letters and designs to make signs;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, glass
  Painter, decorative
  Sign-writer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, painting/ceramics - 8131
  Machine-operator, painting/glass - 8131
  Painter, building - 7141
  Painter, manufactured articles - 7142
  Painter, vehicle - 7142

8312  RAILWAY BRAKERS, SIGNALLERS AND SHUNTERS
 

     Railway brakers, signallers and shunters take charge of and
safeguard  railway freight trains during runs, control the
movement of railway traffic by  operating signals, switch rolling
stock and make up trains in railway yards,  make up trains for
hauling in mines and control their movement.

     Tasks include -

(a)  taking charge of and safeguarding freight train during run;

(b)  controlling flow of railway traffic over section of line by
     operating signals and switches from control panel or signal
     box;

(c)  switching and coupling rolling stock in railway yards and
     sidings in accordance with orders about loading, unloading
     and make-up of trains;

(d)  making up trains for hauling by locomotive or cable and
     directing their movement along haulageways in a mine or
     quarry;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Braker, railway
  Shunter, railway
  Signaller, railway

7324  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED DECORATIVE PAINTERS
 

     Glass, ceramics and related decorative painters decorate
articles made of  wood, metal, textiles, glass, ceramics and
other materials, and plan, lay out  and paint letters and designs
to make signs.

     Tasks include -

(a)  painting designs on articles with a brush, by spraying, or
     by transferring designs using stencils, transfers, rubber
     stamps and other means;

(b)  applying, for decorative purposes, paint, glaze, enamel,
     stain, varnish, lacquer and similar materials on articles
     by spraying or dipping;

(c)  coating mirror glass with silver solutions;

(d)  laying out and painting letters and designs to make signs;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, glass
  Painter, decorative
  Sign-writer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, painting/ceramics - 8131
  Machine-operator, painting/glass - 8131
  Painter, building - 7141
  Painter, manufactured articles - 7142
  Painter, vehicle - 7142

7313  JEWELLERY AND PRECIOUS-METAL WORKERS
 

     Jewellery and precious-metal workers make and repair
jewellery and  precious metalware, cut and set gems and engrave
designs on jewellery and  precious metal articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  casting jewellery and other non-ferrous metal articles by
     hand;

(b)  making complete jewellery articles such as rings, brooches
     and bracelets;

(c)  cutting and polishing gems and setting them in jewellery
     articles;

(d)  making and repairing precious metalware;

(e)  rolling and beating precious metals; engraving letters and
     designs on jewellery and precious metalware;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, jewellery
  Goldsmith
  Jeweller
  Setter, gem
  Silversmith

2213  AGRONOMISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Agronomists and related professionals conduct research and
improve or  develop concepts, theories and operational methods,
and apply scientific  knowledge relating to crop and animal
husbandry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   researching into field crops and grasses and developing new
      or improved cultivation methods;

(b)   researching into horticultural crops and developing new or
      improved cultivation methods;

(c)   researching into animal husbandry and developing new or
      improved breeding methods;

(d)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for tree propagation and culture, or planning and directing
      afforestation and exploitation of forest stands;

(e)   researching into characteristics, use capability and
      productivity of soils and applying findings to development
      of improved agricultural, horticultural and forestry
      practices;

(f)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for wildlife conservation;

(g)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for economic exploitation of grazing lands;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Agronomist
  Animal scientist
  Forestry scientist
  Horticulturist
  Soil scientist

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

3473  STREET, NIGHT-CLUB AND RELATED MUSICIANS, SINGERS AND
DANCERS
 
     Street, night-club and related musicians, singers and
dancers perform  music, or sing or dance on the streets, in
night-clubs, circuses and related  places.     Tasks include -

(a)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist, or
      as a member of a popular music orchestra of circus, or
      other bands;

(b)   singing popular arias as a soloist, or as a member of vocal
      groups in night-clubs, or on the streets;

(c)   performing dances as a soloist, with a partner or as a
      member of dancing groups, in places such as circuses,
      night-clubs or on the streets;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Band leader
  Dancer, night-club
  Musician, night club
  Singer, street
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Conductor, orchestra - 2453
  Dancer, ballet - 2454
  Instrumentalist - 2453
  Singer, choir - 2453

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

3473  STREET, NIGHT-CLUB AND RELATED MUSICIANS, SINGERS AND
DANCERS
 
     Street, night-club and related musicians, singers and
dancers perform  music, or sing or dance on the streets, in
night-clubs, circuses and related  places.     Tasks include -

(a)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist, or
      as a member of a popular music orchestra of circus, or
      other bands;

(b)   singing popular arias as a soloist, or as a member of vocal
      groups in night-clubs, or on the streets;

(c)   performing dances as a soloist, with a partner or as a
      member of dancing groups, in places such as circuses,
      night-clubs or on the streets;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Band leader
  Dancer, night-club
  Musician, night club
  Singer, street
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Conductor, orchestra - 2453
  Dancer, ballet - 2454
  Instrumentalist - 2453
  Singer, choir - 2453

7136  PLUMBERS AND PIPE FITTERS
 

     Plumbers and pipe fitters assemble, fit, install and repair
plumbing  fixtures, or pipes and pipeline systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting, threading, bending, jointing, assembling,
     installing, maintaining and repairing pipes, fittings and
     fixtures of drainage, heating, water supply and sewerage
     systems;

(b)  assembling, installing, maintaining and repairing pipeline
     systems in ships, aircraft, buildings, industrial plant,
     etc.;

(c)  laying clay, concrete or cast-iron pipes in ditches to form
     sewers, drains or water mains, or for other purposes;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, pipe
  Layer, pipe
  Plumber
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, pipe installation 8290

3231  NURSING ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Nursing associate professionals provide nursing care for the
sick,  injured, and others in need of such care, and, in the
absence of medical  doctors or professional nurses, deal with
emergencies.

     Tasks include -

(a)   providing nursing care, treatment and advice to the ill,
      injured, disabled, and others in need of such care

(b)   assisting medical doctors and professional nurses in their
      tasks, administering medicine and drugs, applying surgical
      dressings and giving other forms of treatment under
      instructions from physicians or professional nurses;

(c)   assisting in giving first-aid treatment in emergencies;

(d)   assisting in preparations for physical and psychiatric
      treatment of mentally ill patients;

(e)   assisting in preparations for social adjustment,
      development and education of mentally or physically
      handicapped patients;

(f)   providing nursing care to patients in their homes;

(g)   providing nursing services, care and advice within a
      community or at a workplace;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 Nurse, associate professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Aid, nursing/hospital - 5132
  Nurse, professional - 2230

2230  NURSING AND MIDWIFERY PROFESSIONALS 
     Nursing and midwifery professionals assist medical doctors
in their  tasks, deal with emergencies in their absence, and
provide professional  nursing care for the sick, injured,
physically and mentally disabled, and  others in need of such
care, or they de liver or assist in the delivery of  babies,
provide antenatal and post-natal care and instruct parents in
baby  care.

     Tasks include -

(a)   giving professional nursing care and treatment, either as
      curative or preventive measures, to ill, injured, disabled
      and other patients, and newborn babies and their mothers,
      in hospitals, clinics or other establishments;

(b)   assisting medical doctors in their tasks, dealing with
      emergencies and giving first-aid treatment in their
      absence;

(c)   administering medicine and drugs, applying surgical
      dressings and giving other forms of treatment prescribed
      by physicians;

(d)   supervising and coordinating the work of nursing and other
      non-medical staff in operating theatres and assisting
      surgeons during operations;

(e)   participating in preparations for physical and
      psychological treatment of mentally ill patients;

(f)   participating in preparations for social adjustment,
      development and education of mentally or physically
      handicapped patients;

(g)   giving profeSSional nursing care to patients in their own
      homes;

(h)   providing professional nursing services, care and advice
      within the community or at a workplace;

(i)   specialising in consultant services to schools, industry
      and other organisations;

(j)   checking on general health and progress of expectant
      mothers during pregnancy, and giving them professional
      advice and care;

(k)   delivering babies in normal births and assisting doctors
      with difficult deliveries;

(l)   attending mothers in the post-natal period to supervise
      their recovery, to check on babies' progress, and to
      instruct parents in baby care;

(m)   advising on and administering birth control methods;

(n)   performing related tasks;

(o)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Matron
  Midwife, professional
  Nurse, professional
  Sister, nursing/professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Aid, nursing/hospital - 5132
  Midwife, associate professional - 3232
  Nurse, associate professional - 3231

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

3142  SHIPS' DECK OFFICERS AND PILOTS 
     Ships' deck officers and pilots command and navigate ships
and similar  vessels, and perform related functions on shore.

     Tasks include -

(a)   commanding and navigating ship or similar vessel at sea or
      on inland waterways;

(b)   controlling and participating in deck and bridge-watch
      activities;

(c)   navigating vessels into and out of ports and through
      channels, straits and other waters where special knowledge
      is required;

(d)   ensuring safe loading and unloading of cargo and observance
      of safety regulations and procedures by crew and
      passengers'.

(e)   performing technical supervision of maintenance and repair
      of ship to ensure compliance with specifications and
      regulations;

(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices relating to
      ship's operation and navigation in order to identify and
      solve problems arising in the course of their work;

(g)   ordering ship's stores and recruiting crew as required and
      maintaining record of operations;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Captain ship/sea
  Pilot, ship
  Skipper, yacht

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Sailor - 8340

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

7322  GLASS-MAKERS, CUTTERS, GRINDERS AND FINISHERS
 

     Glass-makers, cutters, grinders and finishers blow, mould,
press and roll  shapes from molten glass and cut, grind and
polish glass.

     Tasks include -

(a)  shaping molten glass by means of blowpipe, hand moulding,
     heating and bending;

(b)  heating, moulding and pressing optical glass to make lens
     blanks;

(c)  grinding and polishing lens blanks;

(d)  grinding and bevelling edges of glass;

(e)  cutting sheet glass with hand tools and sawing prisms and
     other shapes from optical glass blocks;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blower, glass
  Cutter, glass
  Finisher, glass
  Grinder, glass
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Furnace-operator, glass production - 8131

7431  FIBRE PREPARERS
 

     Fibre preparers prepare wool, cotton,flax, jute, hemp and
other natural  textile fibres for spinning and winding.

     Tasks include -

(a)  grading and classifying natural textile fibres;

(b)  washing wool fibres;

(c)  cleaning and fluffing textile fibres;

(d)  forming fibres into sliver, combing them, combining sliver
     into sliver laps or forming sliver into rove;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Comber, fibre/textiles
  Drawer, fibre/textiles
  Rover, fibre/textiles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator combing/textile fibres - 8261

8333  CRANE, HOIST AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Crane, hoist and related plant operators operate and monitor
cranes and  other hoisting equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mobile or stationary cranes with
     mobile or fixed jib or boom ;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment for hoisting, lowering
     or raising men and materials on construction site or in
     mine;

(c)  operating and monitoring ski-lifts and similar equipment;

(d)  operating and monitoring machinery used to haul ferry or
     barge with goods, passengers and vehicles across short
     stretches of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machinery to open and close bridge
     for the passage of road and water traffic;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, crane
  Operator, hoist

7221  BLACKSMITHS, HAMMER-SMITHS AND FORGING-PRESS WORKERS
 

     Blacksmiths, hammer-smiths and forging-press workers draw
wire, hammer  and forge bars, rods, ingots and plates of iron,
steel or other metals to make  and repair various kinds of tools,
metal articles, pieces of equipment,  agricultural and related
implements.

     Tasks include -

(a)  heating metal in forge furnace and manufacturing and
     repairing articles by drawing, bending, cutting, hammering
     metal on an anvil, punching, shearing, joining and hardening
     or tempering;

(b)  shaping heated metal into forgings on power hammer equipped
     with open dies;

(c)  operating closed-die drop hammer to forge metal articles;

(d)  operating a power-press machine equipped with closed dies
to
     forge metal articles;

(e)  drawing wire;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blacksmith
  Drop-hammer worker
  Forging-press worker
  Hammer-smith
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, casting/metal - 8122
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

2442  SOCIOLOGISTS, ANTHROPOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS
 
     Sociologists, anthropologists and related professionals
investigate and  describe the social structure of societies, the
origin and evolution of  humanity, and the interdependence
between environmental conditions and human  activities, and make
the knowledge obtained available as a basis for policy 
decisions.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research on the origin, development, structure,
      social patterns, organisations and inter-relationships of
      human society;

(b)   tracing the origin and evolution of humanity through the
      study of changing characteristics and cultural and social
      institutions;

(c)   tracing the development of humanity through the material
      remains of its past, such as dwellings, temples, tools,
      pottery, coins, weapons, or sculpture;

(d)   studying physical and climatic aspects of areas and
      'regions, and correlating these findings with the economic,
      social and cultural activities;

(e)   advising on the practical application of these findings in
      the formulation of economic and social policies for
      population groups and regions, and for the development of
      markets;

(f)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Anthropologist
  Archaeologist
  Ethnologist
  Geographer
  Sociologist

3460  SOCIAL WORK ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
      Social work associate professionals provide guidance to
clients in social and related matters to enable them to find and
use resources to overcome difficulties and achieve particular
goals.      Tasks include:

(a)   helping individuals and families with personal and social
      problems;

(b)   collecting information relevant to clients' needs and
      advising them on their rights and obligations;

(c)   analysing the client's situation and presenting alternative
      approaches to resolving problems;

(d)   compiling case records or reports for court and other legal
      proceedings;

(e)   planning, evaluating, improving and developing welfare
      services;

(f)   working to prevent development of delinquency or to achieve
      rehabilitation of delinquents by organising and supervising
      social, recreational and educational activities in youth
      clubs, community centres and similar organisations, or by
      other means;

(g)   helping physically or mentally handicapped persons to
      obtain adequate treatment and improve their ability to
      function in society;

(h)   planning, organising or providing home-help services;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Social worker, associate professional
  Social worker, associate professional/enterprise
  Welfare worker, associate professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Social worker, professional - 2446
  Social worker, professional/enterprise - 2446
  Welfare worker, professional -2446

2446  SOCIAL WORK PROFESSIONALS 
     Social work professionals provide guidance to clients in
social and  related matters to enable them to find and use
resources to overcome  difficulties and achieve particular goals.

     Tasks include

(a)   helping individuals and families with personal and social
      problems;

(b)   collecting information relevant to clients' needs and
      advising them on their rights and obligations;

(c)   analysing the client's situation and presenting alternative
      approaches to resolving problems;

(d)   compiling case records or reports for courts and other
      legal proceedings;

(e)   planning, evaluating, improving and developing welfare
      services;

(f)   working to prevent development of delinquency or to achieve
      rehabilitation of delinquents by organising and supervising
      social, recreational and educational activities in youth
      clubs, community centres and similar organisations, or by
      other means;

(g)   helping physically or mentally handicapped persons to
      obtain adequate treatment and improve their ability to
      function in society;

(h)   planning, organising or providing home-help services;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Social worker, professional
  Social worker, professional/enterprise
  Welfare worker, professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Social worker, associate professional - 3460
  Social worker, associate professional/enterprise - 3460
  Welfare worker, associate professional - 3460

2442  SOCIOLOGISTS, ANTHROPOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS
 
     Sociologists, anthropologists and related professionals
investigate and  describe the social structure of societies, the
origin and evolution of  humanity, and the interdependence
between environmental conditions and human  activities, and make
the knowledge obtained available as a basis for policy 
decisions.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research on the origin, development, structure,
      social patterns, organisations and inter-relationships of
      human society;

(b)   tracing the origin and evolution of humanity through the
      study of changing characteristics and cultural and social
      institutions;

(c)   tracing the development of humanity through the material
      remains of its past, such as dwellings, temples, tools,
      pottery, coins, weapons, or sculpture;

(d)   studying physical and climatic aspects of areas and
      'regions, and correlating these findings with the economic,
      social and cultural activities;

(e)   advising on the practical application of these findings in
      the formulation of economic and social policies for
      population groups and regions, and for the development of
      markets;

(f)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Anthropologist
  Archaeologist
  Ethnologist
  Geographer
  Sociologist

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

2131  COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGNERS AND ANALYSTS 
     Computer systems designers and analysts conduct research,
improve or  develop computing concepts and operational methods,
and  advise on or engage  in their practical application.

     Tasks include:

(a)   researching into the principles and operational methods of
      computers and computer-based systems for information
      communication and processing, planning, design, process
      control and production; development and maintenance of
      computer software, as well as data structures and
      databases, algorithms, artificial intelligence and
      robotics;

(b)   maintaining data dictionary and management systems of
      databases to ensure validity and safety of data;

(c)   contributing to and keeping up with technical developments
      of computers, peripherals, computing methods and software,
      their potential and limitations;


(d)   analysing computer users' requirements, by consultation,
to
      determine hardware and software configurations and
      development needs and preparing cost-benefit analyses-

(e)   writing programming specifications and preparing technical
      reports and instruction manuals specifying methods of
      operation and maintenance of the computer hardware and
      software configurations:.

(f)   designing, writing, maintaining and updating software which
      controls the overall functioning of computers and which
      links hardware and computer applications software

(g)   designing and implementing communication networks between
      different computer installations

(h)   developing improved methods and instruments, including
      computer languages, for writing, documenting and
      maintaining computer software,

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Analyst, communications/computers
  Analyst, database/computers
  Analyst, systems/computers
  Database administrator
  Designer, systems/computers
  Engineer, computer systems

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, computer applications 2139
  Technician, computer: 3121

2213  AGRONOMISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Agronomists and related professionals conduct research and
improve or  develop concepts, theories and operational methods,
and apply scientific  knowledge relating to crop and animal
husbandry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   researching into field crops and grasses and developing new
      or improved cultivation methods;

(b)   researching into horticultural crops and developing new or
      improved cultivation methods;

(c)   researching into animal husbandry and developing new or
      improved breeding methods;

(d)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for tree propagation and culture, or planning and directing
      afforestation and exploitation of forest stands;

(e)   researching into characteristics, use capability and
      productivity of soils and applying findings to development
      of improved agricultural, horticultural and forestry
      practices;

(f)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for wildlife conservation;

(g)   researching into, and developing new or improved methods
      for economic exploitation of grazing lands;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Agronomist
  Animal scientist
  Forestry scientist
  Horticulturist
  Soil scientist

7212    WELDERS AND FLAMECUTTERS
 

     Welders and flame cutters weld and cut metal parts using gas
flame, or an  electric arc and other sources of heat to melt and
cut, or to melt and fuse  metal.

     Tasks include -

(a)  welding metal parts using gas flame, or an electric arc,
     thermite compound or other methods;

(b)  operating resistance-welding machines;

(c)  using blowtorch to make and repair lead linings, pipes,
     floors and other lead fixtures;

(d)  brazing metal parts together;

(e)  cutting metal pieces using gas flame or an electric arc;

(f)  joining metal parts by hand soldering;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Brazier
  Flamecutter
  Welder

2421  LAWYERS 
   
     Lawyers give clients legal advice on a wide variety Of
subjects and plead  cases or conduct prosecutions in courts of
justice, or instruct barristers or  advocates to plead in higher
courts of justice.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research on legal theories and principles and
      their relationship to specific laws or court judgements;

(b)   drafting legislation and preparing government regulations
      based on existing laws;

(c)   giving clients - including the Government - legal advice
on
      a wide variety of subjects and undertaking legal business
      on clients' behalf;

(d)   assisting clients to negotiate settlements in matters which
      involve legal disputes;

(e)   examining the circumstances of disputes or reported crimes
      to ascertain facts and their legal implications;

(f)   preparing pleadings or cases for plaintiff or defendant and
      conducting them in court;

(g)   representing clients in the lower court or instructing
      barristers or advocates to plead in higher courts of
      justice;

(h)   accepting briefs and pleading in the higher court;

(i)   acting as prosecutor on behalf of the Government in
      criminal cases;

(j)   drawing up legal documents;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Advocate
  Attorney
  Barrister
  Lawyer
  Prosecutor
  Solicitor

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Clerk, conveyancing - 3432
  Clerk, law - 3432

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

7416  TOBACCO PREPARERS AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Tobacco preparers and tobacco products makers prepare
tobacco leaves and  make various tobacco products.

     Tasks  include -

(a)  grading cured tobacco leaves by type, quality and locality
     where grown;

(b)  mixing tobacco leaves according to formula to obtain a blend
     of distinct flavour;

(c)  tending vacuum container which moistens tobacco for further
     processing;

(d)  removing midribs and stalks from tobacco leaves and
     shredding tobacco;

(e)  making cigars, cigarettes, snuff and other tobacco products
     by hand or with simple machines;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, tobacco
  Maker, cigar
  Maker, cigarette
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, cigar production - 8279
  Machine-operator, cigarette production - 8279

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

7434  FURRIERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Furriers and related workers make, alter, repair and restyle
garments and  other articles made of fur, or participate in the
manufacture of ready-to-wear  fur garments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  choosing, stretching and trimming dressed furs to conform
     to the chosen pattern outline of fur garments or other
     articles;

(b)  making coats, jackets and other fur garments and articles;

(c)  participation in the manufacture of ready-to-wear fur
     clothing;

(d)  reclaiming furs or skins from old coats, gluing fabric to
     interior of fur coats and trimming blocked fur garments;

(e)  altering, restyling and repairing fur garments and other fur
     articles;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furrier
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, sewing/fur - 8263

3131  PHOTOGRAPHERS AND IMAGE AND SOUND RECORDING EQUIPMENT
OPERATORS 
     Photographers and image and sound recording equipment
operators take  photographs, control motion picture and video
cameras and other equipment to  record and edit images and sound.

 
    Tasks include -

(a)   taking photographs for advertising, or other commercial,
      industrial or scientific purposes and to illustrate stories
      and articles in newspapers, magazines and other
      publications;

(b)   taking portrait photographs of persons and groups of
      persons;

(c)   setting and operating motion picture, video, microscopic
      and other specialised cameras, including those for aerial
      photography, to record images;

(d)   controlling equipment to record sound for motion pictures,
      videotapes, gramophone records, audio tapes, digital discs,
      direct broadcasting or other purposes.,

(e)   controlling equipment to edit and mix image and sound
      recordings to ensure satisfactory quality and to create
      special image and sound effects;

(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of image and
      sound recording and editing in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, camera/motion picture
  Operator, recording equipment/sound
  Operator, studio equipment/television
  Photographer

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Mechanic, electronics - 7243
  Photographer, photogravure - 7343
  Photolithographer - 7343
  Repairer, photographic equipment 7311

1110  LEGISLATORS 
      Legislators determine, formulate, and direct policies of
national, state,  regional or local governments, and make,
ratify, amend or repeal laws, public  rules and regulations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   presiding over or participating in the proceedings of
      legislative bodies and administrative councils of national,
      state, regional or local governments or legislative
      assemblies;

(b)   determining, formulating, and directing policies of
      national, state, regional or local governments;

(c)   making, ratifying, amending or repealing laws, public rules
      and regulations within the framework of a Constitution
      determining their powers and fields of jurisdiction;

(d)   serving on government administrative boards or official
      committees;

(e)   promoting the interests of the constituencies which they
      represent;

(f)   as members of the government, directing senior
      administrators and officials of government departments and
      agencies in the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Minister, government

President, government

Prime minister

Secretary, government/legislative

Senator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Secretary, government/non legislative - 1120

2351  EDUCATION METHODS SPECIALISTS 
     Education methods specialists conduct research and develop
or advise on  teaching methods and aids.

     Tasks include -

(a)   researching into current developments curricula, teaching
      methods and other educational practices, and advising on
      necessary changes and possible improvements;

(b)   advising on contents of courses and methods of examination;

(c)   researching into audio-visual and other teaching aids and
      advising on, planning and organising their introduction in
      educational establishments;

(d)   preparing papers and reports;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Adviser, education methods
  Curricula developer
  Specialist, teaching aids

2419  BUSINESS PROFESSIONALS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers business professionals not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 241, Business professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  studying, advising on and applying operational
methods relating to various  aspects of business undertakings,
such as marketing, advertising, public  relations, application
of rules concerning patents, or steps to be taken in  setting up
and running a business, and home economics principles.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   conducting research and determining or advising on existing
      level of sales for particular products or services, and
      assessing potential markets and future trends;

(b)   planning, advising on or directing and coordinating
      production of advertising campaigns;

(c)   studying, advising on and conducting public relations
      programmes with a view to improving the public's knowledge
      and understanding of the enterprise or establishment in
      question;

(d)   giving advice concerning patents and assisting in preparing
      applications or examining applications submitted for
      registration, and writing reports setting out reasons for
      or against the granting of a patent;

(e)   studying and advising on financial, legal, organisational,
      marketing and other aspects connected with setting up and
      running a business;

(f)   studying, interpreting and informing about and advising on
      principles of home economics and management with a view to
      promoting welfare of families, as well as the consumption
      of household goods, or the promotion of new products;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Account executive, advertising
  Analyst, market research
  Home economist
  Officer, public relations
  Patent agent

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Company secretary - 1231

3151  BUILDING AND FIRE INSPECTORS 
     Building and fire inspectors, on behalf of the government
or industrial  and other enterprises, inspect new and existing
houses, industrial plant,  hotels and other buildings and
structures to ensure compliance with building,  grading and
zoning laws and with approved plans, specifications and
standards,  or inspect fire-prevention systems and investigate
fire sites to determine  cause of fire.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising those erecting buildings and other structures on
      the implementation of building, grading and zoning laws,
      as well as other rules concerning quality and safety of
      buildings;

(b)   inspecting buildings and structures during and after
      construction to ensure that they comply with building,
      grading, zoning and safety laws and approved plans,
      specifications and standards, as well as with other rules
      concerning quality and safety of buildings;

(c)   inspecting existing buildings and structures to determine
      whether lack of proper maintenance, housing violations or
      hazardous conditions exist;

(d)   inspecting industrial plant, hotels, cinemas and other
      buildings and structures to detect fire hazards and advise
      on how they can be removed;

(e)   advising on the installation of fire detectors and
      sprinkler systems and the use of materials in the
      construction of buildings and means of transportation to
      reduce risk of fire and extent of damage and danger if fire
      occurs:

(f)   investigating fire sites to determine cause of fire;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Inspector, building
  Inspector, fire
  Specialist, fire prevention

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Fire-fighter - 5161

2412  PERSONNEL AND CAREERS PROFESSIONALS 
     Personnel and careers professionals provide professional
business  services related to personnel policies such as employee
recruitment or  development, occupational analyses and vocational
guidance.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising on and performing personnel functions relating to
      employee recruitment, placement, training, promotion,
      compensation, and employee-management relations or other
      areas of personnel policy;

(b)   studying and analysing jobs performed in an establishment
      by various means, including interviews with workers,
      supervisors and management, and writing detailed post, job
      and occupation descriptions from data obtained;

(c)   preparing occupational information booklets or working on
      occupational classification systems;

(d)   advising and working on the foregoing and other aspects of
      job and occupation analyses in such fields as personnel
      administration, manpower research and planning, training,
      or occupational information and vocational guidance;

(e)   studying and advising individuals on employment
      opportunities, career choices and further education or
      training that may be desirable;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Adviser, careers
  Analyst, job
  Analyst, occupational
  Counsellor, vocational guidance

2419  BUSINESS PROFESSIONALS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers business professionals not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 241, Business professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  studying, advising on and applying operational
methods relating to various  aspects of business undertakings,
such as marketing, advertising, public  relations, application
of rules concerning patents, or steps to be taken in  setting up
and running a business, and home economics principles.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   conducting research and determining or advising on existing
      level of sales for particular products or services, and
      assessing potential markets and future trends;

(b)   planning, advising on or directing and coordinating
      production of advertising campaigns;

(c)   studying, advising on and conducting public relations
      programmes with a view to improving the public's knowledge
      and understanding of the enterprise or establishment in
      question;

(d)   giving advice concerning patents and assisting in preparing
      applications or examining applications submitted for
      registration, and writing reports setting out reasons for
      or against the granting of a patent;

(e)   studying and advising on financial, legal, organisational,
      marketing and other aspects connected with setting up and
      running a business;

(f)   studying, interpreting and informing about and advising on
      principles of home economics and management with a view to
      promoting welfare of families, as well as the consumption
      of household goods, or the promotion of new products;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Account executive, advertising
  Analyst, market research
  Home economist
  Officer, public relations
  Patent agent

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Company secretary - 1231

2351  EDUCATION METHODS SPECIALISTS 
     Education methods specialists conduct research and develop
or advise on  teaching methods and aids.

     Tasks include -

(a)   researching into current developments curricula, teaching
      methods and other educational practices, and advising on
      necessary changes and possible improvements;

(b)   advising on contents of courses and methods of examination;

(c)   researching into audio-visual and other teaching aids and
      advising on, planning and organising their introduction in
      educational establishments;

(d)   preparing papers and reports;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Adviser, education methods
  Curricula developer
  Specialist, teaching aids

7223    MACHINE-TOOL SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool setters and setter-operators set for operators,
or set and  operate, various machine tools working to fine
tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting one or more types of machine tools for operators to
     produce metal articles in standardised series;

(b)  setting and operating a variety of machine tools;

(c)  setting and operating particular types of metalworking
     machines, such as lathe, milling, planing, boring, drilling,
     grinding or honing machines, including multipurpose
     numerically controlled metalworking machines;

(d)  performing similar tasks when machining plastics and other
     metal substitutes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Setter, machine tool
  Setter-operator, drilling machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, grinding machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, lathe/metalworking
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, drilling/metal - 8211
  Machine-operator, grinding/metal 8211
  Machine-operator, machine tool - 8211

7313  JEWELLERY AND PRECIOUS-METAL WORKERS
 

     Jewellery and precious-metal workers make and repair
jewellery and  precious metalware, cut and set gems and engrave
designs on jewellery and  precious metal articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  casting jewellery and other non-ferrous metal articles by
     hand;

(b)  making complete jewellery articles such as rings, brooches
     and bracelets;

(c)  cutting and polishing gems and setting them in jewellery
     articles;

(d)  making and repairing precious metalware;

(e)  rolling and beating precious metals; engraving letters and
     designs on jewellery and precious metalware;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, jewellery
  Goldsmith
  Jeweller
  Setter, gem
  Silversmith

7223    MACHINE-TOOL SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool setters and setter-operators set for operators,
or set and  operate, various machine tools working to fine
tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting one or more types of machine tools for operators to
     produce metal articles in standardised series;

(b)  setting and operating a variety of machine tools;

(c)  setting and operating particular types of metalworking
     machines, such as lathe, milling, planing, boring, drilling,
     grinding or honing machines, including multipurpose
     numerically controlled metalworking machines;

(d)  performing similar tasks when machining plastics and other
     metal substitutes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Setter, machine tool
  Setter-operator, drilling machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, grinding machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, lathe/metalworking
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, drilling/metal - 8211
  Machine-operator, grinding/metal 8211
  Machine-operator, machine tool - 8211

7432  WEAVERS, KNITTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

  
     Weavers, knitters and related workers spin and wind yarn by
hand, weave  materials on hand looms, make carpets by using a
knotting technique, knit  garment fabrics by hand or hand-
operated machine or perform similar  manufacturing tasks by hand
or hand-operated machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  spinning and winding yarn by hand;

(b)  drawing warp threads into loom by hand;

(c)  weaving plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpet or
     other fabrics on hand looms;

(d)  making carpets by using a knotting technique;

(e)  knitting garments and other articles on hand-operated
     machine or by hand;

(f)  crocheting or making braid by hand;

(g)  making nets by hand;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Knitter
  Spinner, thread and yarn
  Threader, loom
  Weaver, carpet
  Weaver cloth
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, knitting - 8262
  Machine-operator, weaving - 8262

7215  RIGGERS AND CABLE SPLICERS
 

     Riggers and cable splicers erect tackle for lifting and
hauling,' or  install and maintain cables, ropes and wires on
construction sites, oil- and  gas-well drilling sites, or in
ships, aircraft, and other places.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting up various types of cages, funicular railways,
     aerial cableways, moving platforms, lifting tackle and other
     hoisting equipment for moving passengers, workers,
     materials, machinery and other heavy objects in mountainous
     areas, across deep gorges or fjords, about workshops,
     shipyards, or other locations;

(b)  joining, repairing and fitting attachments to wires, hemp
     ropes and cables;

(c)  installing and repairing ropes, wires and cables on ships
     and aircraft;

(d)  working as member of crew erecting and repairing derricks
     for drilling water, gas- and oil-wells and installing
     cables, hoisting and drilling equipment;

(e)  working as member of cable crew fitting and installing wire
     cables in the construction of suspension bridges,

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Rigger
  Rigger, ship
  Splicer, cable and rope
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, splicing/cable and rope - 8290

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

7441  PELT DRESSERS, TANNERS AND FELLMONGERS
 

     Pelt dressers, tanners and fellmongers prepare fur- and
wool-bearing  pelts for making garments and other products, and
make leather from hides and  skins.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sorting and grading pelts, hides and skins;

(b)  removing flesh and fat from pelts before curing;

(c)  removing flesh and hair from hides;

(d)  removing long, coarse hair from pelts and trimming
     underlying hair to even length;

(e)  operating machine to split hides edgeways;

(f)  treating hides to convert them into leather;

(g)  applying dyes to fur pelts;

(h)  dressing and applying dyes and stains to leather;

(i)  stretching and smoothing dressed pelts;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fellmonger
  Grader, pelt
  Tanner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, tanning - 8265

7113  STONE SPLITTERS, CUTTERS AND CARVERS
 



     Stone splitters, cutters and carvers break quarried stone
slabs or  blocks, or by using hand or hand-powered tools cut,
shape and finish stone for  building, ornamental, monumental and
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving wedges into quarried stone to break it into slabs
     or blocks;

(b)  selecting and grading slabs and blocks of granite, marble,
     and other stone;

(c)  cutting, shaping and finishing building and monumental stone
     such as granite or marble by using hand or hand-powered
     tools;

(d)  making patterns and marking shapes on stone for subsequent
     sawing, planing, drilling and other dressing and cutting
     operations;

(e)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     blocks used for monuments or memorials;

(f)  setting stone in the erection of monuments and memorials;

(g)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     used for decorative facings on buildings-

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carver, stone
  Cutter, stone
  Mason, monument
  Splitter, stone
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, carving/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, cutting/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, splitting/stone 8112
  Sculptor - 2452
  Stonemason, construction - 7122

6152  INLAND AND COASTAL WATERS FISHERY WORKERS
 
     Inland and coastal waters fishery workers, alone or as
members of  fishing-vessel crews, catch fish or gather other
forms of aquatic life in  inland or coastal waters, for sale or
delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers, marketing
organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing and repairing nets and other fishing gear and
     equipment;

(b)  operating fishing vessels to, from and at fishing grounds;

(c)  baiting, setting and hauling in fishing gear;

(d)  gathering different forms of aquatic life from shores and
     shallow waters;

(e)  cleaning, freezing, icing or salting catch

(f)  delivering or marketing products;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Diver, oyster
  Diver, sponge
  Fisherman, coastal waters
  Fisherwoman, inland waters
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/fishing
        - 1221
  General manager, fishing - 1311
  Labourer, fishery - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/fishing - 1210

3475  ATHLETES, SPORTSPERSONS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Athletes, sportspersons and related associate professionals
participate  in competitive sporting events, conduct sports
training, compile rules  concerning sporting events, and control
the progress of these events.     Tasks include -

(a)   participating in competitive sporting events;

(b)   conducting sports training to develop ability in and
      knowledge of the sport;

(c)   compiling rules concerning the conduct of sporting
      competitions, and controlling the progress of these events;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Athlete
  Boxer
  Coach, sports
  Official, sports
  Wrestler

9133  HAND-LAUNDERERS AND PRESSERS
 

     Hand-launderers and pressers launder, press or dry-clean
linen and other  textiles by hand.

     Tasks include -

(a)  laundering and pressing linen, clothing, fabrics and similar
     articles by hand in a laundry or other establishment;

(b)  cleaning, by hand and with chemical solutions, clothing,
     fabrics, leather goods and similar articles, in a dry-
     cleaning or other establishment;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Dry-cleaner, hand
  Launderer, hand
  Presser, hand
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, dry-cleaning - 8264
  Machine-operator, pressing/laundry 8264
  Machine-operator, washing/laundry 8264

7141  PAINTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Painters and related workers prepare surfaces of buildings
and other  structures for painting, apply protective and
decorative coats of paint or  similar materials or cover interior
walls and ceilings of buildings with  wallpaper, silk or other
fabrics.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cleaning and preparing walls and other surfaces of buildings
     for painting or wallpapering;

(b)  applying or spraying paint, varnish, shellac and similar
     materials to surfaces, fixtures and fittings of buildings;

(c)  measuring and mounting wallpaper, silk or other fabrics on
     interior walls and ceilings of buildings and ships;

(d)  applying or spraying paint, red lead, bituminous emulsion
     and similar materials to ships' hulls and metal structures,
     steel frameworks of buildings, bridges and metal
     constructions;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers in this group.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Painter, building
  Paperhanger

7324  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED DECORATIVE PAINTERS
 

     Glass, ceramics and related decorative painters decorate
articles made of  wood, metal, textiles, glass, ceramics and
other materials, and plan, lay out  and paint letters and designs
to make signs.

     Tasks include -

(a)  painting designs on articles with a brush, by spraying, or
     by transferring designs using stencils, transfers, rubber
     stamps and other means;

(b)  applying, for decorative purposes, paint, glaze, enamel,
     stain, varnish, lacquer and similar materials on articles
     by spraying or dipping;

(c)  coating mirror glass with silver solutions;

(d)  laying out and painting letters and designs to make signs;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, glass
  Painter, decorative
  Sign-writer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, painting/ceramics - 8131
  Machine-operator, painting/glass - 8131
  Painter, building - 7141
  Painter, manufactured articles - 7142
  Painter, vehicle - 7142

7142  VARNISHERS AND RELATED PAINTERS
 

     Varnishers and related painters paint vehicles such as cars,
buses or  trucks, or apply protective coats of enamel or varnish
on metal, wooden and  other manufactured articles, usually with
a hand-spraying device.

     Tasks include -

(a)  painting cars, buses, trucks and other vehicles, and
     applying varnish and other protective coatings;

(b)  applying paint as well as protective coatings of enamel or
     varnish on metal, wooden and other manufactured products,
     usually with a 
     hand-spraying device;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Painter, manufactured articles
  Painter, vehicle
  Varnisher, manufactured articles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, painting/metal 8223
  Machine-operator, painting/wood 8240
  Painter, building - 7141
  Painter, decorative - 7324

9211  FARM-HANDS AND LABOURERS
 

     Farm-hands and labourers help with farm work by performing
a variety of  simple farming tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging and shovelling to clear ditches or for other
     purposes;

(b)  loading, unloading various crops and other materials;

(c)  raking, pitching and stacking hay;

(d)  watering and weeding;

(e)  picking fruit, vegetables and various plants;

(f)  helping with planting, harvesting and general farmwork;

(g)  feeding, watering, and cleaning animals and keeping their
     quarters clean;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, farm
  Picker, fruit
Some related occupations classified else where:
  Shepherd - 6121
  Farm worker, skilled/field crops - 6111
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock - 6121

9313  BUILDING CONSTRUCTION LABOURERS
 

     Building construction labourers perform simple and routine
tasks in  connection with various aspects of building
construction

     Tasks include -

(a)  cleaning used building bricks and doing other simple work
     on demolition sites;

(b)  clearing various obstructions as instructed;

(c)  carrying bricks and mortar to bricklayer on construction
     site;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, construction/buildings work
  Labourer, demolition
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Bricklayer, construction - 7122
  Builder, house/traditional materials - 7121
  Demolition worker - 7129

1229  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED 
      This unit group covers department managers not classified
elsewhere in  Minor group 122, Production and operations
department managers.

      For instance here should be classified those who plan,
direct and  coordinate activities of the enterprise or
organisation concerning government  administrative and other
operations, public or private education services,  health and
social work services, recreational, cultural, and sporting events

and services, and operations of extra-territorial organisations
and bodies.

      In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating government operations
      concerning public service activities, such as control of
      the money supply or taxation schemes, various government
      business regulations, as well as civil service
      administration and related activities;

(b)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of foreign affairs and
      public order and safety activities;

(c)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the administration and operation of government-funded
      social security schemes;

(d)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      public or private education;

(e)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      health and social services;

(f)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      recreational, cultural and sporting operations and events;

(g)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the operations of extra-territorial organisations and
      bodies;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

Dean

Department manager, production and operations/extra-
         territorial organisations

Department manager, production and operations/health

Department manager, production and operations/recreation

Head teacher


Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, education - 1319

General manager, recreation - 1319

Managing director, enterprise/health 1210

Managing director, organisation/extraterritorial
         organisations - 1210


7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

7441  PELT DRESSERS, TANNERS AND FELLMONGERS
 

     Pelt dressers, tanners and fellmongers prepare fur- and
wool-bearing  pelts for making garments and other products, and
make leather from hides and  skins.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sorting and grading pelts, hides and skins;

(b)  removing flesh and fat from pelts before curing;

(c)  removing flesh and hair from hides;

(d)  removing long, coarse hair from pelts and trimming
     underlying hair to even length;

(e)  operating machine to split hides edgeways;

(f)  treating hides to convert them into leather;

(g)  applying dyes to fur pelts;

(h)  dressing and applying dyes and stains to leather;

(i)  stretching and smoothing dressed pelts;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fellmonger
  Grader, pelt
  Tanner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, tanning - 8265

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

7346  SILK-SCREEN, BLOCK AND TEXTILE PRINTERS
 
 

     Silk-screen, block and textile printers cut stencils for use
in  silk-screen printing and print on paper, metal, textiles and
other materials  with silk-screens, blocks of rubber, wood or
other materials, or engraved  printing rollers.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting stencils for silk-screen printing;

(b)  printing on paper, metal, textiles and other materials by
     silk-screen process;

(c)  printing designs and patterns on cloth or wallpaper with
     engraved blocks or machines equipped with engraved rollers;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cutter, stencil/silk-screen
  Printer, block
  Printer, silk-screen
  Printer, textile

1226  PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT MANAGERS IN TRANSPORT,
STORAGE AND  COMMUNICATIONS 
      Production and operations department managers in transport,
storage and  communications plan, direct and coordinate those
activities of the enterprise  which are concerned with providing
relevant services, under the broad guidance  of the directors and
chief executives, and in consultation with managers of  other
departments or sections.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning, directing and coordinating activities concerning
      the provision of relevant services;

(b)   ensuring the efficient use of resources and the fulfilment
      of service quotas;

(c)   planning and directing daily service operations;

(d)   controlling expenditure;

(e)   establishing and directing operational and administrative
      procedures;

(f)   overseeing the application of work safety and related
      procedures;

(g)   overseeing the selection, training and performance of
      staff;

(h)   representing the department in its dealings with other
      parts of the enterprise or with outside bodies;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Department manager, production and
         operations/communications

Department manager, production and operations/storage

Department manager, production and operations/transport

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

General manager, storage - 1316

Managing director, enterprise/communications - 1210

Managing director, enterprise/transport - 1210

2122  STATISTICIANS 
     Statisticians conduct research, improve or develop
mathematical and other  aspects of statistical concepts, theories
and operational methods and  techniques, and advise on or engage
in their practical application,in such  fields as business or
medicine as well as. in other areas of natural, social  or life
sciences.

     Tasks include:

(a)   studying, improving and developing statistical theories and
        methodologies-.

(b)   planning and organising surveys and other statistical
      collections, and designing questionnaires;

(c)   evaluating, processing, analysing, and interpreting
      statistical data and preparing them for publication;

(d)   advising on or applying various data collection methods and
      statistical methods and techniques, and determining
      reliability of findings, especially in such fields as
      business or medicine as well as in other areas of natural,
      social or life sciences:.

(e)   preparing scientific papers and reports-.

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Demographer
  Statistician
  Statistician, applied statistics
  Statistician, mathematical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Assistant, statistical: 3434
  Clerk, statistical: 4122

8278  BREWERS, WINE AND OTHER BEVERAGE  MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Brewers, wine and other beverage machine operators operate
and monitor  machines which mix, press, or malt and ferment
grains and fruit to make malt  liquors, wine and other alcoholic
or non-alcoholic beverages, except fruit and  vegetable juices.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines which process barley and
     other grains used in making distilled and malt liquors, and
     controlling the fermentation process,

(b)  operating and monitoring machines which process grapes and
     other fruit used in making wines, and controlling the
     fermentation process;

(c)  operating and monitoring stills which increase or reduce the
     alcohol content of alcoholic beverages;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which blend wines and
     liquors to obtain desired tastes and flavours;
(e)  operating and monitoring machines which make non-alcoholic
     beverages, except fruit and vegetable juices;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Brewer
  Machine-operator, malting/spirits
  Machine-operator, soft-drinks production
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, fruit juice production - 8275
  Taster, wine - 7415

7129  BUILDING FRAME AND RELATED TRADES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers building frame and related trades
workers not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 712, Building
frame and related trades  workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who perform
miscellaneous  construction and building maintenance tasks.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  performing miscellaneous construction and building
     maintenance work on structures such as office buildings,
     apartment houses, factories and similar establishments in
     good repair;

(b)  performing construction, maintenance or repair work at
     unusual heights;

(c)  erecting temporary metal or wooden scaffolding on building
     sites;

(d)  demolishing buildings and other structures;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Demolition worker
  Housebuilder, non-traditional materials
  Scaffolder
  Steeplejack
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Labourer, construction/buildings 9313
  Labourer, demolition - 9313

7416  TOBACCO PREPARERS AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Tobacco preparers and tobacco products makers prepare
tobacco leaves and  make various tobacco products.

     Tasks  include -

(a)  grading cured tobacco leaves by type, quality and locality
     where grown;

(b)  mixing tobacco leaves according to formula to obtain a blend
     of distinct flavour;

(c)  tending vacuum container which moistens tobacco for further
     processing;

(d)  removing midribs and stalks from tobacco leaves and
     shredding tobacco;

(e)  making cigars, cigarettes, snuff and other tobacco products
     by hand or with simple machines;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, tobacco
  Maker, cigar
  Maker, cigarette
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, cigar production - 8279
  Machine-operator, cigarette production - 8279

7324  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED DECORATIVE PAINTERS
 

     Glass, ceramics and related decorative painters decorate
articles made of  wood, metal, textiles, glass, ceramics and
other materials, and plan, lay out  and paint letters and designs
to make signs.

     Tasks include -

(a)  painting designs on articles with a brush, by spraying, or
     by transferring designs using stencils, transfers, rubber
     stamps and other means;

(b)  applying, for decorative purposes, paint, glaze, enamel,
     stain, varnish, lacquer and similar materials on articles
     by spraying or dipping;

(c)  coating mirror glass with silver solutions;

(d)  laying out and painting letters and designs to make signs;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, glass
  Painter, decorative
  Sign-writer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, painting/ceramics - 8131
  Machine-operator, painting/glass - 8131
  Painter, building - 7141
  Painter, manufactured articles - 7142
  Painter, vehicle - 7142

7346  SILK-SCREEN, BLOCK AND TEXTILE PRINTERS
 
 

     Silk-screen, block and textile printers cut stencils for use
in  silk-screen printing and print on paper, metal, textiles and
other materials  with silk-screens, blocks of rubber, wood or
other materials, or engraved  printing rollers.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting stencils for silk-screen printing;

(b)  printing on paper, metal, textiles and other materials by
     silk-screen process;

(c)  printing designs and patterns on cloth or wallpaper with
     engraved blocks or machines equipped with engraved rollers;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cutter, stencil/silk-screen
  Printer, block
  Printer, silk-screen
  Printer, textile

4111  STENOGRAPHERS AND TYPISTS
 
     Stenographers and typists record oral or written matter in
shorthand and,  using type-, writers, produce documents on paper.
     Tasks include -

(a)  taking dictation and recording other matter in shorthand;
(b)  making transcripts in typewritten form;
(c)  performing limited clerical duties, such as filing or using
     photocopying machines;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Typist
  Typist, stenography

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Secretary, typing - 4115
  Verbatim reporter - 3431

7342  STEREOTYPERS AND ELECTROTYPERS
 

     Stereotypers and electrotypers make printing plates from
set-up type by  stereotyping and electroplating processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making moulds of set-up type with papier mâché, wax or other
     materials;

(b)  making printing plates by casting metal in moulds of papier
     mâché or other material bearing impression of type, or by
     putting lead alloy backing on copper shell made by
     electroplating moulds to reproduce type;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Electrotyper
  Stereotyper

9333  FREIGHT HANDLERS
 

     Freight handlers carry out tasks such as packing, carrying,
loading and  unloading furniture and other household items, or
loading and unloading ship  and aircraft cargoes and other
freight, or carrying and stacking goods in  various warehouses.

     Tasks include -

(a)  packing office or household furniture, machines, appliances
     and related goods to be transported from one place to
     another;

(b)  carrying goods to be loaded on or unloaded from vans,
     trucks, wagons, ships, or aircraft;

(c)  loading and unloading grain, coal, sand and similar goods
     by placing them on conveyor-belts, pipes, etc. ;

(d)  connecting hoses between main shore installation pipes and
     tanks of barges, tankers and other ships to load and unload
     petroleum, liquefied gases and other liquids;

(e)  carrying and stacking goods in warehouses and similar
     establishments;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Handler, freight
Some related occupations classified else where:
  Operator, crane - 8333
  Operator, truck/lifting - 8334

5121  HOUSEKEEPERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Housekeepers and related workers organise, supervise and
carry out  housekeeping functions in hotels, clubs, boarding
schools and other  enterprises and institutions and in private
households.

     Tasks include -

(a)  engaging, training, discharging organising and supervising
     workers employed as domestic staff;

(b)  purchasing or controlling the purchase of supplies;

(c)  controlling storage and issue of supplies;

(d)  supervising general welfare and conduct of individuals in
     institutions;

(e)  assisting in cases of minor injury or illness by performing
     tasks such as taking temperature, giving medicine, putting
     on bandages;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Housekeeper
  Matron, housekeeping
  Steward, house

5123  WAITERS, WAITRESSES AND BARTENDERS

 
     Waiters, waitresses and bartenders serve food and beverages
in  commercially-operated dining and drinking places, clubs,
institutions and  canteens, on board ships and on passenger
trains.

     Tasks include -

(a)  serving food and beverages;

(b)  advising on the choice of wines and serving them;

(c)  serving alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks at a bar;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Bartender
  Waiter
  Waiter, head
  Waitress
  Waitress, wine

5111  TRAVEL ATTENDANTS AND TRAVEL STEWARDS
 
     Travel attendants and travel stewards render personal
services to ensure  the comfort and safety of passengers, serve
meals and beverages, or plan and  coordinate housekeeping and
social activities on ships.

     Tasks include -

(a)  greeting passengers entering aircraft, conducting them to
     their seats, ensuring that seat-belts are fastened and -no
     smoking" and similar signs are obeyed;

(b)  explaining the use of safety equipment such as life belts
     and oxygen masks;

(c)  distributing reading material, headphones, blankets and
     similar items, and answering passengers' inquiries;

(d)  serving pre-prepared meals as well as beverages;

(e)  selling duty-free goods;

(f)  administering minor medical aid to passengers in need;

(g)  taking appropriate action in case of emergencies or
     accidents;

(h)  taking care of passengers at airports;

(i)  taking care of general needs and comfort of ship's
     passengers, including keeping cabins tidy and serving meals
     in them, on request;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Attendant, airport
  Attendant, flight
  Steward, ship

5123  WAITERS, WAITRESSES AND BARTENDERS

 
     Waiters, waitresses and bartenders serve food and beverages
in  commercially-operated dining and drinking places, clubs,
institutions and  canteens, on board ships and on passenger
trains.

     Tasks include -

(a)  serving food and beverages;

(b)  advising on the choice of wines and serving them;

(c)  serving alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks at a bar;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Bartender
  Waiter
  Waiter, head
  Waitress
  Waitress, wine

5121  HOUSEKEEPERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Housekeepers and related workers organise, supervise and
carry out  housekeeping functions in hotels, clubs, boarding
schools and other  enterprises and institutions and in private
households.

     Tasks include -

(a)  engaging, training, discharging organising and supervising
     workers employed as domestic staff;

(b)  purchasing or controlling the purchase of supplies;

(c)  controlling storage and issue of supplies;

(d)  supervising general welfare and conduct of individuals in
     institutions;

(e)  assisting in cases of minor injury or illness by performing
     tasks such as taking temperature, giving medicine, putting
     on bandages;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Housekeeper
  Matron, housekeeping
  Steward, house

5123  WAITERS, WAITRESSES AND BARTENDERS

 
     Waiters, waitresses and bartenders serve food and beverages
in  commercially-operated dining and drinking places, clubs,
institutions and  canteens, on board ships and on passenger
trains.

     Tasks include -

(a)  serving food and beverages;

(b)  advising on the choice of wines and serving them;

(c)  serving alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks at a bar;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Bartender
  Waiter
  Waiter, head
  Waitress
  Waitress, wine

5111  TRAVEL ATTENDANTS AND TRAVEL STEWARDS
 
     Travel attendants and travel stewards render personal
services to ensure  the comfort and safety of passengers, serve
meals and beverages, or plan and  coordinate housekeeping and
social activities on ships.

     Tasks include -

(a)  greeting passengers entering aircraft, conducting them to
     their seats, ensuring that seat-belts are fastened and -no
     smoking" and similar signs are obeyed;

(b)  explaining the use of safety equipment such as life belts
     and oxygen masks;

(c)  distributing reading material, headphones, blankets and
     similar items, and answering passengers' inquiries;

(d)  serving pre-prepared meals as well as beverages;

(e)  selling duty-free goods;

(f)  administering minor medical aid to passengers in need;

(g)  taking appropriate action in case of emergencies or
     accidents;

(h)  taking care of passengers at airports;

(i)  taking care of general needs and comfort of ship's
     passengers, including keeping cabins tidy and serving meals
     in them, on request;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Attendant, airport
  Attendant, flight
  Steward, ship

5123  WAITERS, WAITRESSES AND BARTENDERS

 
     Waiters, waitresses and bartenders serve food and beverages
in  commercially-operated dining and drinking places, clubs,
institutions and  canteens, on board ships and on passenger
trains.

     Tasks include -

(a)  serving food and beverages;

(b)  advising on the choice of wines and serving them;

(c)  serving alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks at a bar;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Bartender
  Waiter
  Waiter, head
  Waitress
  Waitress, wine

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

7321  ABRASIVE WHEEL FORMERS, POTTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Abrasive wheel formers, potters and related workers make
pottery,  porcelain ware, bricks, tiles and abrasive wheels.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making articles of pottery and porcelain;

(b)  making clay or plaster-of-Paris moulds;

(c)  forming articles on potter's wheel with hands, or using
     interior or exterior moulding shapes and shaping tools;

(d)  forming articles by casting semi-liquid clay in plaster-of-
     Paris moulds;

(e)  forming bricks and tiles into special shapes by hand;

(f)  making articles by pressing plastic clay into moulds by
     hand;

(g)  operating screw-press or hydraulic press to make products
     from clay dust;

(h)  operating a machine which extrudes moist clay for further
     processing;

(i)  forming abrasive wheels by moulding and pressing abrasive
     mixture;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Caster, pottery and porcelain
  Modeller, pottery and porcelain
  Potter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln operator, brick and tile - 8131
  Kiln operator, pottery and porcelain 8131

3411  SECURITIES AND FINANCE DEALERS AND BROKERS 
     Securities and finance dealers and brokers buy and sell
securities,  stocks, bonds and other financial instruments, and
deal on the foreign  exchange on spot or on futures markets, on
behalf of their own company or for  customers on a commission
basis and recommend transactions to clients or  senior
management.     Tasks include -

(a)   obtaining information about the financial circumstances of
      customers and companies in which investments may be made;

(b)   analysing market trends for securities, bonds, stocks and
      other financial instruments, including foreign exchange;

(c)   informing prospective customers about market conditions and
      prospects;

(d)   advising on and participating in the negotiation of terms
      for, and organisation of, loans and placement of stocks and
      bonds in the financial market to raise capital for
      customers;

(e)   recording and transmitting buy and sell orders for
      securities, stocks, bonds or other financial instruments
      and for foreign exchange for future or immediate delivery;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:  Broker, foreign exchange
  Broker, securities
  Broker, stocks and shares

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:  Clerk, securities - 4122

9211  FARM-HANDS AND LABOURERS
 

     Farm-hands and labourers help with farm work by performing
a variety of  simple farming tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging and shovelling to clear ditches or for other
     purposes;

(b)  loading, unloading various crops and other materials;

(c)  raking, pitching and stacking hay;

(d)  watering and weeding;

(e)  picking fruit, vegetables and various plants;

(f)  helping with planting, harvesting and general farmwork;

(g)  feeding, watering, and cleaning animals and keeping their
     quarters clean;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, farm
  Picker, fruit
Some related occupations classified else where:
  Shepherd - 6121
  Farm worker, skilled/field crops - 6111
  Farm worker, skilled/livestock - 6121

8162  STEAM-ENGINE AND BOILER OPERATORS
 

     Steam-engine and boiler operators operate and monitor steam-
engines and  boilers on land and at sea.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring coal- or oil fired steam-engines
     or boilers on land and at sea;

(b)  performing' related tasks

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, boiler/ship
  Operator, steam engine

7341  COMPOSITORS, TYPESETTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Compositors, typesetters and related workers set and arrange
printing  type by hand or machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting type by hand and printing copies with simple
     machines;

(b)  operating linotype, monotype and typecasting machines;

(c)  arranging set-up of type and spacing material and
     illustration blocks to make pages;

(d)  arranging pages in sequence for printing;

(e)  operating electronic key-boarding machines which enable
     characters to be converted into film, sensitised tape or
     paper for subsequent photo plate-making;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Compositor, printing
  Printer
  Typesetter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Press-operator, printing/cylinder 8251

7122  BRICKLAYERS AND STONEMASONS
 

     Bricklayers and stonemasons erect and repair foundations,
walls and  structures of brick, stone and similar materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  laying stone, brick, hollow tile and similar building blocks
     to construct or repair walls, partitions, fireplaces and
     other structures such as smokestacks, furnaces, converters,
     kilns and ovens, piers and abutments;

(b)  laying walks, curbs and pavements of stone;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Bricklayer, construction
  Stonemason, construction

7113  STONE SPLITTERS, CUTTERS AND CARVERS
 



     Stone splitters, cutters and carvers break quarried stone
slabs or  blocks, or by using hand or hand-powered tools cut,
shape and finish stone for  building, ornamental, monumental and
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving wedges into quarried stone to break it into slabs
     or blocks;

(b)  selecting and grading slabs and blocks of granite, marble,
     and other stone;

(c)  cutting, shaping and finishing building and monumental stone
     such as granite or marble by using hand or hand-powered
     tools;

(d)  making patterns and marking shapes on stone for subsequent
     sawing, planing, drilling and other dressing and cutting
     operations;

(e)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     blocks used for monuments or memorials;

(f)  setting stone in the erection of monuments and memorials;

(g)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     used for decorative facings on buildings-

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carver, stone
  Cutter, stone
  Mason, monument
  Splitter, stone
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, carving/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, cutting/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, splitting/stone 8112
  Sculptor - 2452
  Stonemason, construction - 7122

4131  STOCK CLERKS
 
     Stock clerks maintain records of goods produced and
production materials  received, weighed, issued, dispatched or
put into stock.
     Tasks include -
     
(a)  arranging and controlling receipt and dispatch of goods and
     keeping relevant records;
(b)  maintaining stock records, verifying issue of goods,
     estimating needs and making requisitions of new stocks;
(c)  receiving, storing and issuing tools, spare parts, or
     various equipment and maintaining relevant records;
(d)  weighing goods received, issued, produced, or dispatched and
     maintaining relevant records;
(e)  compiling inventories of furniture and other items received
     for storage;
(f)  performing related tasks; 
(g) supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, freight/dispatching
  Clerk, freight/receiving
  Clerk, stock/records
  Clerk, stock/storeroom
  Clerk, weighing

2455  FILM, STAGE AND RELATED ACTORS AND DIRECTORS      
     Film, stage and related actors and directors act in, or
direct, motion  pictures, television or radio productions and
stage,shows.

     Tasks include -

(a)   learning lines and cues and playing parts in dramatic
      productions on stage, television, radio or in motion
      pictures;

(b)   telling stories or reading literary works aloud to educate
      or entertain listeners;

(c)   studying scripts to determine artistic interpretation,
      instructing actors on acting methods, and directing all
      aspects of dramatic productions on stage, television, radio
      or in motion pictures, including choice of actors, and
      final decisions concerning costumes, set designs, sound or
      lighting effects;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Actor
  Director, motion picture
  Director, stage
  Story-teller, radio or television

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Clown - 3474
  Impresario - 1229
  Producer, theatre - 1229
  Stage manager, 1229

7416  TOBACCO PREPARERS AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Tobacco preparers and tobacco products makers prepare
tobacco leaves and  make various tobacco products.

     Tasks  include -

(a)  grading cured tobacco leaves by type, quality and locality
     where grown;

(b)  mixing tobacco leaves according to formula to obtain a blend
     of distinct flavour;

(c)  tending vacuum container which moistens tobacco for further
     processing;

(d)  removing midribs and stalks from tobacco leaves and
     shredding tobacco;

(e)  making cigars, cigarettes, snuff and other tobacco products
     by hand or with simple machines;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, tobacco
  Maker, cigar
  Maker, cigarette
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, cigar production - 8279
  Machine-operator, cigarette production - 8279

2114  GEOLOGISTS AND GEOPHYSICISTS 
     Geologists and geophysicists conduct research, improve or
develop  concepts, theories and operational methods, or apply
scientific knowledge  relating to geology and geophysics in such
fields as oil, gas and mineral  exploitation, water conservation,
civil engineering, telecommunications and  navigation.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods related to geology and
      geophysics;

(b)   studying composition and structure of the earth's crust,
      examining rocks, minerals, fossil remains, etc., to
      determine processes affecting the development of the earth,
      trace evolution of past life and establish nature and
      chronology of geological formations;

(c)   interpreting research data and preparing geological
      reports, maps, charts and diagrams;

(d)   applying results of research to assess development
      potential of mineral, gas and oil deposits and underground
      water resources;

(e)   applying geological knowledge to problems encountered in
      civil engineering projects such as the construction of
      dams, bridges, tunnels and large buildings;

(f)   investigating and measuring seismic, gravitational,
      electrical, thermal and magnetic forces affecting the
      earth;

(g)   investigating and measuring optical and acoustic phenomena
      in the atmosphere;

(h)   estimating weight, size and mass of the earth and
      composition and structure of its interior, and studying the
      nature and activity of volcanoes, glaciers and earthquakes;

(i)   charting the earth's magnetic field and applying this and
      other collected data for purposes of broadcasting and
      navigation;

(j)   studying and measuring physical properties of seas and the
      atmosphere and their inter-relationship, such as the
      exchange of thermal energy;

(k)   locating and determining the nature and extent of oil, gas
      and mineral deposits and of ground-water resources, using
      seismological, gravimetric, magnetic, electrical or
      radiometric methods;

(l)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(m)   performing related tasks;

(n)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Geologist
  Geophysicist

7441  PELT DRESSERS, TANNERS AND FELLMONGERS
 

     Pelt dressers, tanners and fellmongers prepare fur- and
wool-bearing  pelts for making garments and other products, and
make leather from hides and  skins.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sorting and grading pelts, hides and skins;

(b)  removing flesh and fat from pelts before curing;

(c)  removing flesh and hair from hides;

(d)  removing long, coarse hair from pelts and trimming
     underlying hair to even length;

(e)  operating machine to split hides edgeways;

(f)  treating hides to convert them into leather;

(g)  applying dyes to fur pelts;

(h)  dressing and applying dyes and stains to leather;

(i)  stretching and smoothing dressed pelts;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fellmonger
  Grader, pelt
  Tanner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, tanning - 8265

9322  HAND PACKERS AND OTHER MANUFACTURING LABOURERS
 

     Hand packers and other manufacturing labourers pack
materials or products  by hand and perform a variety of simple
routine tasks connected with  manufacturing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  packing materials or products by hand in boxes, bags,
     cartons, crates, kegs and other containers for shipment or
     storage;

(b)  moving, lifting, carrying, loading, unloading or washing raw
     materials or products, in various manufacturing  industries
     or repair and maintenance establishments;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, manufacturing
  Packer, hand
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, labelling - 8290
  Machine-operator, packing - 8290

7312  MUSICAL-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND TUNERS
 

     Musical-instrument makers and tuners make, repair and tune
stringed, wind  or percussion instruments with hand or power
tools.

     Tasks include

(a)  making and repairing accordions, stringed and wind
     instruments;

(b)  building and repairing organs and making parts for such
     organs;

(c)  making instrumental parts of pianos and assembling and
     repairing such pianos;

(d)  tuning organs, pianos and other instruments;

(e)  making and repairing other musical instruments;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/musical (brass)
  Maker, instrument/musical (string)
  Maker, instrument/musical (woodwind)
  Tuner, musical instrument

6154  HUNTERS AND TRAPPERS
 
     Hunters and trappers catch and kill mammals, birds or
reptiles mainly for  meat, skin, feathers and other products, for
sale or delivery on a regular  basis to wholesale buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting traps to catch mammals, birds or reptiles;

(b)  killing trapped or free mammals, birds or reptiles with
     firearms or other weapons;

(c)  skinning and otherwise treating killed mammals, birds or
     reptiles to obtain desired products for sale or delivery.

(d)  delivering or selling trapped live mammals, birds or
     reptiles-,

(e)  repairing and maintaining equipment.

(f)  performing related tasks-,

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Hunter, seal
  Hunter, whale
  Trapper, fur
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/hunting
        - 1221
  General manager, hunting - 1311
  Labourer, hunting - 9213
  Labourer, trapping - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/hunting - 1210

7432  WEAVERS, KNITTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

  
     Weavers, knitters and related workers spin and wind yarn by
hand, weave  materials on hand looms, make carpets by using a
knotting technique, knit  garment fabrics by hand or hand-
operated machine or perform similar  manufacturing tasks by hand
or hand-operated machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  spinning and winding yarn by hand;

(b)  drawing warp threads into loom by hand;

(c)  weaving plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpet or
     other fabrics on hand looms;

(d)  making carpets by using a knotting technique;

(e)  knitting garments and other articles on hand-operated
     machine or by hand;

(f)  crocheting or making braid by hand;

(g)  making nets by hand;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Knitter
  Spinner, thread and yarn
  Threader, loom
  Weaver, carpet
  Weaver cloth
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, knitting - 8262
  Machine-operator, weaving - 8262

6141  FORESTRY WORKERS AND LOGGERS
 
     Forestry workers and loggers carry out the necessary
operations to  cultivate, conserve and exploit forests, for sale
or delivery of forestry  products on a regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a) establishing and caring for forest stands;

(b)  locating trees to be felled and estimating volume of timber;

(c)  trimming, topping and felling trees and sawing them into
     logs;

(d)  shaping rough wooden products from logs at felling site;

(e)  stacking logs, loading them in chutes or floating them down
     rivers;

(f)  keeping watch to detect forest fires and participating in
     firefighting operations;

(g)  delivering or marketing forestry products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Climber, logging
  Cruiser, timber
  Feller-bucker, tree
  Forestry worker, skilled
  Logger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/forestry
        - 1221
  General manager, forestry - 1311
  Labourer, forestry - 9212
  Managing director, enterprise/forestry - 1210
  Operator, forestry machinery - 8331

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

7416  TOBACCO PREPARERS AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Tobacco preparers and tobacco products makers prepare
tobacco leaves and  make various tobacco products.

     Tasks  include -

(a)  grading cured tobacco leaves by type, quality and locality
     where grown;

(b)  mixing tobacco leaves according to formula to obtain a blend
     of distinct flavour;

(c)  tending vacuum container which moistens tobacco for further
     processing;

(d)  removing midribs and stalks from tobacco leaves and
     shredding tobacco;

(e)  making cigars, cigarettes, snuff and other tobacco products
     by hand or with simple machines;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, tobacco
  Maker, cigar
  Maker, cigarette
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, cigar production - 8279
  Machine-operator, cigarette production - 8279

7214  STRUCTURAL-METAL PREPARERS AND ERECTORS
 

     Structural-metal preparers and erectors shape, assemble and
erect heavy  metal girders and plates to form structures and
frameworks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  marking metal members as a guide when drilling, cutting, and
     shaping them for use in buildings, ships and other
     structures;

(b)  drilling, cutting and shaping structural steel in a
     workshop;

(c)  erecting steel members for buildings, bridges and other
     constructions;

(d)  assembling and erecting the framework and other metal parts
     of ships' structures;

(e)  shaping and fitting structural-steel plates of ships under
     construction or repair;

(f)  riveting structural-metal members by hand, machine or
     pneumatic riveter;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Erector, structural metal
  Preparer, structural metal
  Riveter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, rivet production 8211

2412  PERSONNEL AND CAREERS PROFESSIONALS 
     Personnel and careers professionals provide professional
business  services related to personnel policies such as employee
recruitment or  development, occupational analyses and vocational
guidance.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising on and performing personnel functions relating to
      employee recruitment, placement, training, promotion,
      compensation, and employee-management relations or other
      areas of personnel policy;

(b)   studying and analysing jobs performed in an establishment
      by various means, including interviews with workers,
      supervisors and management, and writing detailed post, job
      and occupation descriptions from data obtained;

(c)   preparing occupational information booklets or working on
      occupational classification systems;

(d)   advising and working on the foregoing and other aspects of
      job and occupation analyses in such fields as personnel
      administration, manpower research and planning, training,
      or occupational information and vocational guidance;

(e)   studying and advising individuals on employment
      opportunities, career choices and further education or
      training that may be desirable;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Adviser, careers
  Analyst, job
  Analyst, occupational
  Counsellor, vocational guidance

9212  FORESTRY LABOURERS

 

     Forestry labourers help with work in natural forests or in
forestry  plantations by performing a variety of simple forestry
tasks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging holes for tree planting

(b)  stacking logs and timber;

(c)  clearing undergrowth in forest stands;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, forestry
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Forestry worker, skilled - 6141

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

2451  AUTHORS, JOURNALISTS AND OTHER WRITERS 
     Authors, journalists and other writers write literary works
for  publication or presentation in dramatic form, appraise
merits of artistic  productions, or literary and other works of
art, or write and edit news,  stories and commentaries.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing literary works for publication or
      presentation in dramatic form;

(b)   writing scripts and continuities and preparing programmes
      for stage, film, radio and television productions;

(c)   appraising and writing about merits of literary, musical
      and other works of art, and about artistic performances;

(d)   collecting, reporting and commenting on news and current
      affairs for publication in newspapers and periodicals, or
      for broadcasting by radio or television;

(e)   interviewing politicians and other public figures at press
      conferences and on other occasions, including individual
      interviews recorded for radio or television;

(f)   writing editorials and selecting, revising, arranging and
      editing submitted articles and other material for
      publication in newspapers and periodicals;

(g)   appraising manuscripts submitted for publication in book
      form, making recommendations thereon and editing or
      supervising editing of the material;

(h)   writing advertising copy promoting particular products or
      services;

(i)   selecting, assembling and preparing publicity material
      about business or other organisations for issue through
      press, radio, television and other media;

(j)   designing and writing brochures, handbooks and similar
      technical publications;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Author
  Copywriter, advertising
  Critic
  Editor
  Journalist
  Writer, technical

4133  TRANSPORT CLERKS
 
     Transport clerks keep records of operational aspects and
coordinate the  timing of train, road and air passenger and
freight transport, and prepare  reports for management.
     Tasks include -

(a)  keeping records of operational aspects, and coordinating the
     timing of passenger and freight transport;

(b)  directing train routings within a division or zone of a
     railway system and keeping related records;
(c)  directing, controlling and keeping records of freight
     handling at a railway yard;
(d)  coordinating and keeping records of operational activities
     concerning road transport, such as allocation and scheduling
     of vehicles and drivers, loading and unloading of vehicles
     and storage of goods in transit;
(e)  coordinating and keeping records of operational activities
     concerning air transport of passengers and freight, such as
     passenger lists and freight manifests;
(f)  preparing reports for management;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Controller, clerical/air transport service
  Controller, clerical/railway service
  Controller, clerical/road transport service
  Dispatcher, clerical/boat
  Dispatcher, clerical/bus
  Dispatcher, clerical/train
  Dispatcher, clerical/truck

3142  SHIPS' DECK OFFICERS AND PILOTS 
     Ships' deck officers and pilots command and navigate ships
and similar  vessels, and perform related functions on shore.

     Tasks include -

(a)   commanding and navigating ship or similar vessel at sea or
      on inland waterways;

(b)   controlling and participating in deck and bridge-watch
      activities;

(c)   navigating vessels into and out of ports and through
      channels, straits and other waters where special knowledge
      is required;

(d)   ensuring safe loading and unloading of cargo and observance
      of safety regulations and procedures by crew and
      passengers'.

(e)   performing technical supervision of maintenance and repair
      of ship to ensure compliance with specifications and
      regulations;

(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices relating to
      ship's operation and navigation in order to identify and
      solve problems arising in the course of their work;

(g)   ordering ship's stores and recruiting crew as required and
      maintaining record of operations;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Captain ship/sea
  Pilot, ship
  Skipper, yacht

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Sailor - 8340

3141  SHIPS' ENGINEERS 
     Ships' engineers control and participate in the operation,
maintenance  and repair of mechanical, electrical and electronic
equipment and machinery on  board ship, or perform related
supporting functions on shore.

     Tasks include -

(a)   controlling and participating in the operation, maintenance
      and repair of mechanical, electrical and electronic
      equipment and machinery on board ship;

(b)   ordering fuel and other engine-room department stores and
      maintaining record of operations;

(c)   performing technical supervision of the installation,
      maintenance and repair of ship's machinery and equipment
      to ensure compliance with specifications and regulations;

(d)   applying knowledge of principles and practices relating to
      ship's machinery and equipment in order to identify and
      solve problems arising in the course of their work;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
     
  Engineer, ship

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, marine - 2145

2221  MEDICAL DOCTORS 
     Medical doctors conduct research, improve or develop
concepts, theories  and operational methods, and apply preventive
or curative measures.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research into human disorders and illnesses and
      preventive or curative methods;

(b)   conducting medical examinations and making diagnoses;

(c)   prescribing and giving treatment for diagnosed illnesses,
      disorders or injuries;

(d)   giving specialised medical or surgical treatment for
      particular types of illnesses, disorders or injuries;

(e)   giving advice on and applying preventive medicine methods
      and treatments;

(f)   participating in the development and implementation of
      public health laws and regulations for safeguarding and
      promoting the health of a community;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Doctor, medical
  Ophthalmologist
  Physician
  Psychiatrist
  Surgeon

2222  DENTISTS 
     Dentists conduct research, improve or develop concepts,
theories and  operational methods, and apply medical knowledge
in the field of dentistry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research into dental and related disorders and
      illnesses and preventive or curative methods;

(b)   making diagnoses, advising on and giving necessary dental
      treatment;

(c)   giving surgical, medical and other forms of treatment for
      particular types of dental and oral diseases and disorders;

(d)   participating in public action to maintain or improve
      standards of oral health and dental care:

(e)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(f)   performing related tasks,

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Dentist
  Dentist, pedodontistry
  Surgeon, oral/dentistry

2221  MEDICAL DOCTORS 
     Medical doctors conduct research, improve or develop
concepts, theories  and operational methods, and apply preventive
or curative measures.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research into human disorders and illnesses and
      preventive or curative methods;

(b)   conducting medical examinations and making diagnoses;

(c)   prescribing and giving treatment for diagnosed illnesses,
      disorders or injuries;

(d)   giving specialised medical or surgical treatment for
      particular types of illnesses, disorders or injuries;

(e)   giving advice on and applying preventive medicine methods
      and treatments;

(f)   participating in the development and implementation of
      public health laws and regulations for safeguarding and
      promoting the health of a community;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Doctor, medical
  Ophthalmologist
  Physician
  Psychiatrist
  Surgeon

2223  VETERINARIANS 
     Veterinarians conduct research, improve or develop concepts,
theories and  operational methods, and apply medical knowledge
in the veterinary field.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods;

(b)   conducting examinations and diagnosing diseases or injuries
      of animals;

(c)   administering surgical or medical veterinary treatment;

(d)   testing dairy and other herds and inoculating animals
      against diseases;

(e)   advising on care and breeding of animals;

(f)   inspecting quality, purity and safety of food made wholly
      or partly from raw materials of animal origin intended for
      human consumption;

(g)   assisting in epidemiological, radiological and other
      surveillance of animal health;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Veterinarian
  Veterinarian, epidemiology

2148 CARTOGRAPHERS AND SURVEYORS 
     Cartographers and surveyors apply surveying methods and
techniques to  determine the exact position of natural and
constructed features and  boundaries of land, seas, underground
areas and celestial bodies, and prepare  or revise digital,
graphic and pictorial representations.

     Tasks include:

(a)   surveying, measuring and describing land surfaces for
      various purposes, including mapmaking, construction work
or
      establishment of property boundaries;


(b)   surveying mines, delineating underground surfaces, noting
      exact position of various features and making charts and
      maps with a view to controlling direction and extent of
      mining;

(c)   surveying sea, river and lake beds, delineating underwater
      surfaces, noting exact position of various features and
      making charts and maps to be used in particular in
      determining navigable waters and channels and in planning
      construction of marine structures;

(d)   planning and conducting aerial photographic surveys;

(e)   analysing aerial and other photographs, remote sensing and
      surveying data to prepare and revise topographic maps and
      charts, utility maps and other thematic maps;

(f)   studying and advising on technical, aesthetic and economic
      aspects of map production;

(g)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Cartographer
  Photogrammetrist
  Surveyor, aerial
  Surveyor, hydrographic
  Surveyor, land
  Surveyor, mining

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Surveyor, marine: 3115
  Surveyor, quantity: 2149

3115  MECHANICAL ENGINEERING TECHNICIANS 
     Mechanical engineering technicians perform technical tasks
connected with  mechanical engineering research, as well as with
the design, manufacture,  assembly, construction, operation,
maintenance and repair of machines and  mechanical installations
and facilities.

     Tasks include -

(a)   providing technical assistance connected with research and
      the development of machines and mechanical installations,
      facilities and components, or testing prototypes;

(b)   designing and preparing layouts of machines and mechanical
      installations, facilities and components according to the
      specifications given;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for manufacture and
      installation according to the specifications given;

(d)   providing technical supervision of manufacture,
      utilisation, maintenance and repair of machines and
      mechanical installations, facilities and components to
      ensure satisfactory performance and compliance with
      specifications and regulations;

(e)   applying technical knowledge of machinery and mechanical
      engineering principles and practices in order to identify
      and solve problems arising in the course of their work;

(f)   developing and monitoring the implementation of safety
      standards and procedures for marine survey work in relation
      to ships' hulls, equipment and cargoes;


(g)   coordinating and supervising activities of workers engaged
      in dry-docking vessels for cleaning, painting and repair;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Technician,engineering/aeronautics
  Technician, engineering/marine
  Technician, engineering/mechanical
  Technician,engineering/nuclear power

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Assembler, mechanical machinery 8281
  Mechanic, industrial machinery - 7233

2148 CARTOGRAPHERS AND SURVEYORS 
     Cartographers and surveyors apply surveying methods and
techniques to  determine the exact position of natural and
constructed features and  boundaries of land, seas, underground
areas and celestial bodies, and prepare  or revise digital,
graphic and pictorial representations.

     Tasks include:

(a)   surveying, measuring and describing land surfaces for
      various purposes, including mapmaking, construction work
or
      establishment of property boundaries;


(b)   surveying mines, delineating underground surfaces, noting
      exact position of various features and making charts and
      maps with a view to controlling direction and extent of
      mining;

(c)   surveying sea, river and lake beds, delineating underwater
      surfaces, noting exact position of various features and
      making charts and maps to be used in particular in
      determining navigable waters and channels and in planning
      construction of marine structures;

(d)   planning and conducting aerial photographic surveys;

(e)   analysing aerial and other photographs, remote sensing and
      surveying data to prepare and revise topographic maps and
      charts, utility maps and other thematic maps;

(f)   studying and advising on technical, aesthetic and economic
      aspects of map production;

(g)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Cartographer
  Photogrammetrist
  Surveyor, aerial
  Surveyor, hydrographic
  Surveyor, land
  Surveyor, mining

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Surveyor, marine: 3115
  Surveyor, quantity: 2149

2149  ARCHITECTS, ENGINEERS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS NOT
ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers architects, engineers and related
professionals  not classified elsewhere in Minor group 214,
Architects, engineers and related  professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  conducting research, advising on or developing
procedures concerning  efficiency of production and work
organisation, as well as those who perform  quantity surveying
and those who study and advise on technological aspects of 
particular materials, products and manufacturing processes.

     In such cases tasks would include

(a)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising  on planning and production methods;

(b)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising on methods to promote the efficient, safe and
      economic utilisation of personnel, material and equipment;

(c)   making recommendations regarding methods of work and
      sequence of operations and supervising their
      implementation;

(d)   making recommendations and supervising time and motion
      aspects of work organisation;

(e)   advising on most efficient layout of plant or
      establishment;

(f)   identifying potential hazards and introducing safety
      procedures and devices;

(g)   preparing and monitoring cost estimates and bills of
      quantities for architectural and construction projects;

(h)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular manufacturing processes, such as those related
      to glass, ceramics, textiles, leather products, wood, and
      printing;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, industrial efficiency
  Engineer, production
  Engineer, time and motion study
  Surveyor, quantity
  Technologist, textiles

2148 CARTOGRAPHERS AND SURVEYORS 
     Cartographers and surveyors apply surveying methods and
techniques to  determine the exact position of natural and
constructed features and  boundaries of land, seas, underground
areas and celestial bodies, and prepare  or revise digital,
graphic and pictorial representations.

     Tasks include:

(a)   surveying, measuring and describing land surfaces for
      various purposes, including mapmaking, construction work
or
      establishment of property boundaries;


(b)   surveying mines, delineating underground surfaces, noting
      exact position of various features and making charts and
      maps with a view to controlling direction and extent of
      mining;

(c)   surveying sea, river and lake beds, delineating underwater
      surfaces, noting exact position of various features and
      making charts and maps to be used in particular in
      determining navigable waters and channels and in planning
      construction of marine structures;

(d)   planning and conducting aerial photographic surveys;

(e)   analysing aerial and other photographs, remote sensing and
      surveying data to prepare and revise topographic maps and
      charts, utility maps and other thematic maps;

(f)   studying and advising on technical, aesthetic and economic
      aspects of map production;

(g)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Cartographer
  Photogrammetrist
  Surveyor, aerial
  Surveyor, hydrographic
  Surveyor, land
  Surveyor, mining

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Surveyor, marine: 3115
  Surveyor, quantity: 2149

7143  BUILDING STRUCTURE CLEANERS
 

     Building structure cleaners remove soot from chimneys, or
clean exterior  surfaces of buildings and other structures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  removing soot from flues, chimneys and connecting pipes;

(b)  cleaning exterior surfaces of stone, brick, metal or similar
     materials by means of chemicals, of a jet of steam or sand
     applied under great pressure;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Chimney sweep
  Cleaner, building exteriors
  Sandblaster, building exteriors

9162  SWEEPERS AND RELATED LABOURERS
 

     Sweepers and related labourers sweep and clean streets,
parks, airports,  stations and other public places or perform odd
jobs.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sweeping streets, parks, airports, stations and similar
     public places;

(b)  unloading coal or wood and putting it into cellars of
     private households or establishments;

(c)  chopping and stacking wood

(d)  carrying water;

(e)  shovelling snow;

(f)  beating dust out of carpets by using a carpet-beater;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Odd-job person
  Sweeper, park
  Sweeper, street

4223  TELEPHONE SWITCHBOARD OPERATORS
 
     Telephone switchboard operators operate a telephone
switchboard or a  section thereof, and deal with local or long
distance calls, and various  telephone inquiries.
     Tasks include -

(a)  establishing contact between caller and person called;
(b)  making connections for outgoing calls, and routing long-
     distance calls;
(c)  recording charges;
(d)  dealing with telephone inquiries and recording messages;
(e)  performing related tasks;
(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Switchboard-operator, telephone

7412  BAKERS, PASTRY-COOKS AND CONFECTIONERY MAKERS
 

     Bakers, pastry-cooks and confectionery makers make various
kinds of  bread, cakes, and other flour products, as well as
handmade chocolate and  sugar confectionery.

     Tasks include  -

(a)  making bread, cakes, biscuits, pastries, pies and other
     flour products;

(b)  making handmade confectionery from mixtures of sugar,
     chocolate and other ingredients with the help of tools and
     some machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Baker
  Confectioner
  Maker, chocolate
 Pastry-cook
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cook - 5122
  Machine-operator, bakery products 8274
  Machine-operator, bread production 8274
  Machine-operator, chocolate production - 8274

7433  TAILORS, DRESSMAKERS AND HATTERS
 

     Tailors, dressmakers and hatters make suits, dresses and
other garments  from textile fabrics, leather or any other
material except fur, carry out  alterations and repairs, or make
hats, or participate in the manufacture of  ready-to-wear
garments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making overcoats, suits, skirts, shirts, blouses, lingerie,
     corsetry and similar garments often to clients' individual
     requirements;

(b)  participating in the manufacture of ready-to-wear clothing;

(c)  making hats;

(d)  altering, restyling and repairing garments;

(e)  making and caring for costumes used in theatrical,
     television and motion picture productions;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Dressmaker
  Milliner
  Tailor
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, sewing - 8263

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

7341  COMPOSITORS, TYPESETTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Compositors, typesetters and related workers set and arrange
printing  type by hand or machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting type by hand and printing copies with simple
     machines;

(b)  operating linotype, monotype and typecasting machines;

(c)  arranging set-up of type and spacing material and
     illustration blocks to make pages;

(d)  arranging pages in sequence for printing;

(e)  operating electronic key-boarding machines which enable
     characters to be converted into film, sensitised tape or
     paper for subsequent photo plate-making;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Compositor, printing
  Printer
  Typesetter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Press-operator, printing/cylinder 8251

2460  RELIGIOUS PROFESSIONALS 
      
     Religious professionals function as perpetrators of the
sacred  traditions, practices and beliefs and celebrate or
administer at the rituals  of initiation, preside over ritual
reenactments of creative, redemptive or  salvatory events, and
offer sacrifices to the gods or to one God.

     Tasks include -

(a)   perpetuating sacred traditions, practices and beliefs;

(d)   conducting religious services, rites and ceremonies;

(c)   undertaking various administrative and social duties,
      including a ending committees and meetings of religious
      organisations;

(d)   providing spiritual and moral guidance in accordance with
      the religion professed;

(e)   propagating religious doctrines in own country or abroad;

(f)   preparing religious sermons and preachings;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bonze
  Imam
  Minister, religion
  Monk, professional
  Nun, professional
  Poojari
  Priest
  Rabbi

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Monk, associate professional - 3480
  Nun, associate professional - 3480
  Preacher, lay - 3480

3474  CLOWNS, MAGICIANS, ACROBATS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS
 
     Clowns, magicians, acrobats and related associate
professionals entertain  audiences in circuses and other places
by performing a variety of acts.   
   
     Tasks include -

(a)   performing amusing antics and telling funny stories;

(b)   performing tricks of illusion and sleight of hand, and
      feats of hypnotism;

(c)   performing difficult and spectacular acrobatics, and
      gymnastic or juggling feats:

(d)   training and performing with animals;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Acrobat	
  Aerialist
  Clown
  Hypnotist
  Magician

7441  PELT DRESSERS, TANNERS AND FELLMONGERS
 

     Pelt dressers, tanners and fellmongers prepare fur- and
wool-bearing  pelts for making garments and other products, and
make leather from hides and  skins.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sorting and grading pelts, hides and skins;

(b)  removing flesh and fat from pelts before curing;

(c)  removing flesh and hair from hides;

(d)  removing long, coarse hair from pelts and trimming
     underlying hair to even length;

(e)  operating machine to split hides edgeways;

(f)  treating hides to convert them into leather;

(g)  applying dyes to fur pelts;

(h)  dressing and applying dyes and stains to leather;

(i)  stretching and smoothing dressed pelts;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fellmonger
  Grader, pelt
  Tanner
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, tanning - 8265

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

7415  FOOD AND BEVERAGE TASTERS AND GRADERS
 

     Food and beverage tasters and graders inspect, taste and
grade various  types of agricultural products, food and
beverages.

     Tasks include -

(a)  inspecting, testing and tasting agricultural products, food
     and beverages at various stages of processing to determine
     quality and grade into appropriate class;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, food
  Taster, food
  Taster, liquor
  Taster, wine

3471  DECORATORS AND COMMERCIAL DESIGNERS
 
     Decorators and commercial designers apply artistic
techniques to product  design, interior decoration and sales
promotion.     Tasks include -

(a)   designing industrial and commercial products, including new
      types and styles of clothing and accessories, and
      endeavouring to harmonise aesthetic considerations with
      technical and other requirements;

(b)   creating interior decorating schemes and planning
      furnishings for homes. public buildings, ships and   other
      places;

(c)   designing and painting stage scenery;

(d)   tattooing decorative designs on client's skin;

(e)   creating and executing artistic effects for use in show
      windows and other display areas;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Decorator, display
  Decorator, interior
  Designer, fashion
  Designer, industrial products
  Tattooist
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Architect, interior - 2141
  Artist, commercial - 2452

3211  LIFE SCIENCE TECHNICIANS 
     Life science technicians perform technical tasks connected
with research  in biology or other life sciences, as well as with
the development of  industrial, agricultural, medical, public
health and other practical  applications of research results.

     Tasks  include -

(a)   preparing materials and equipment for experiments, tests
      and analyses;

(b)   collecting and preparing specimens such as plant, animal
      or human cells, and tissues, parts or organs for
      experiments, tests and analyses;

(c)   assisting with and performing experiments, tests and
      analyses in their field of specialisation;

(d)   collecting data and estimating quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects;

(e)   applying knowledge of scientific principles and practices
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(f)   organising maintenance and repairs of research equipment;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, bacteriology
  Technician, biochemistry
  Technician, blood-bank
  Technician, pharmacology
  Technician, serology
  Technician, zoology

2211  BIOLOGISTS, BOTANISTS, ZOOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Biologists, botanists, zoologists and related professionals
conduct  research, improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and  apply scientific knowledge relating to
biology, microbiology, bacteriology,  cytology, genetics,
zoology, botany and ecology, especially in the fields of 
medicine and agriculture.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   conducting field and laboratory experiments concerning all
      forms of life by identifying and classifying human, animal,
      insect or plant specimens, and studying their origin,
      development, chemical and physical form, structure,
      composition, and life and reproductive processes;

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure, development and characteristics of micro-
      organisms such as bacteria or viruses;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the factors
      involved in the origin, development and transmission of
      hereditary characteristics in human beings, animals or
      plants;

(e)   studying all forms of plant life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(f)   studying all forms of animal life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(g)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure and functions of living cells, and the influence
      of physical and chemical factors upon normal and abnormal
      cells;

(h)   studying inter-relationships of animal and plant life and
      the environmental factors involved, and giving professional
      advice to related disciplines;

(i)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bacteriologist
  Biologist
  Botanist
  Ecologist
  Microbiologist
  Zoologist

3320  PREPRIMARY EDUCATION TEACHING ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Pre-primary education teaching associate professionals
organise group and  individual play and education activities to
support and promote physical,  mental and social development of
children below primary school age.

     Tasks include -

(a)   planning and organising activities designed to facilitate
      the children's development of physical and social skills;

(b)   promoting language development through story-telling, role-
      play, songs, rhymes and informal conversations and
      discussions;

(c)   observing children in order to evaluate and discuss
      progress and possible problems with parents;

(d)   supervising children's activities to ensure safety and
      resolve conflicts;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Teacher, nursery/associate professional
  Teacher, preprimary education/associate professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Teacher, preprimary education/professional - 2332

2332  PRE-PRIMARY EDUCATION TEACHING PROFESSIONALS 
     Preprimary education teaching professionals organise group
and individual  play and educational activities to support and
promote physical, mental and  social development of children
below primary school age.

     Tasks include -

(a)   planning and organising activities designed to facilitate
      the children's development of physical and social skills;

(b)   promoting language development through story-telling, role-
      play, songs, rhymes and informal conversations and
      discussions;

(c)   observing children in order to evaluate and discuss
      progress and possible problems with parents;

(d)   supervising children's activities to ensure safety and
      resolve conflicts;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Teacher, preprimary education/professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Teacher, preprimary education/associate professional -
        3320

3320  PREPRIMARY EDUCATION TEACHING ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Pre-primary education teaching associate professionals
organise group and  individual play and education activities to
support and promote physical,  mental and social development of
children below primary school age.

     Tasks include -

(a)   planning and organising activities designed to facilitate
      the children's development of physical and social skills;

(b)   promoting language development through story-telling, role-
      play, songs, rhymes and informal conversations and
      discussions;

(c)   observing children in order to evaluate and discuss
      progress and possible problems with parents;

(d)   supervising children's activities to ensure safety and
      resolve conflicts;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Teacher, nursery/associate professional
  Teacher, preprimary education/associate professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Teacher, preprimary education/professional - 2332

2332  PRE-PRIMARY EDUCATION TEACHING PROFESSIONALS 
     Preprimary education teaching professionals organise group
and individual  play and educational activities to support and
promote physical, mental and  social development of children
below primary school age.

     Tasks include -

(a)   planning and organising activities designed to facilitate
      the children's development of physical and social skills;

(b)   promoting language development through story-telling, role-
      play, songs, rhymes and informal conversations and
      discussions;

(c)   observing children in order to evaluate and discuss
      progress and possible problems with parents;

(d)   supervising children's activities to ensure safety and
      resolve conflicts;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Teacher, preprimary education/professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Teacher, preprimary education/associate professional -
        3320

2310  COLLEGE, UNIVERSITY AND HIGHER EDUCATION TEACHING
PROFESSIONALS 
     College, university and higher education teaching
professionals teach  their subjects at some or all levels after
the termination of secondary  education, conduct research and
improve or develop concepts, theories and  operational methods,
and prepare scholarly papers and books.

     Tasks include -

(a)   designing and modifying curricula and preparing courses of
      study in accordance with requirements;

(b)   delivering lectures and conducting tutorials, seminars and
      laboratory experiments;

(c)   stimulating discussion and independent thought among
      students;

(d)   supervising, where appropriate, experimental and practical
      work undertaken by students;

(e)   administering, evaluating and marking examination papers
      and tests;

(f)   directing research of post-graduate students or other
      members of department;

(g)   researching into and developing concepts, theories and
      operational methods for application in industrial and other
      fields;

(h)   preparing scholarly books, papers or articles;

(i)   attending conferences and seminars;

(j)   participating in decision-making processes concerning
      college or university departmental, budgetary and other
      policy matters;

(k)   assisting with extra-curricular activities, such as
      debating societies;

(l)   performing related tasks;

(m)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Lecturer, college
  Lecturer, university
  Professor, college
  Professor, university
  Reader, university

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Chancellor, university - 1210
  Dean - 1229
  Head, college faculty - 1229

3320  PREPRIMARY EDUCATION TEACHING ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Pre-primary education teaching associate professionals
organise group and  individual play and education activities to
support and promote physical,  mental and social development of
children below primary school age.

     Tasks include -

(a)   planning and organising activities designed to facilitate
      the children's development of physical and social skills;

(b)   promoting language development through story-telling, role-
      play, songs, rhymes and informal conversations and
      discussions;

(c)   observing children in order to evaluate and discuss
      progress and possible problems with parents;

(d)   supervising children's activities to ensure safety and
      resolve conflicts;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Teacher, nursery/associate professional
  Teacher, preprimary education/associate professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Teacher, preprimary education/professional - 2332

2332  PRE-PRIMARY EDUCATION TEACHING PROFESSIONALS 
     Preprimary education teaching professionals organise group
and individual  play and educational activities to support and
promote physical, mental and  social development of children
below primary school age.

     Tasks include -

(a)   planning and organising activities designed to facilitate
      the children's development of physical and social skills;

(b)   promoting language development through story-telling, role-
      play, songs, rhymes and informal conversations and
      discussions;

(c)   observing children in order to evaluate and discuss
      progress and possible problems with parents;

(d)   supervising children's activities to ensure safety and
      resolve conflicts;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Teacher, preprimary education/professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Teacher, preprimary education/associate professional -
        3320

3310  PRIMARY EDUCATION TEACHING ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Primary education teaching associate professionals teach a
range of  subjects at the primary education level.
     
     Tasks performed usually include: preparing programme of
learning, giving  instruction in a range of subjects at the
primary education level, and  organising some educational
activities; preparing reports.  Supervision of  other workers may
be included.

     Tasks include -

(a)   preparing programme of learning and giving instruction in
      areas such as reading, writing, and arithmetic, within
      prescribed or recommended curriculum-

(b)   preparing, administering and marking tests, projects and
      assignments to train pupils and to evaluate their progress,
      and giving remedial instruction if necessary;

(c)   organising and supervising pupils' extra-curricular
      activities;

(d)   encouraging personal development of pupils and discussing
      their progress with parents and head teacher;

(e)   supervising pupils in classroom and other areas of school;

(f)   preparing reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Teacher, primary education/associate professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Head teacher - 1229
  Inspector, school - 2352
  Teacher, primary education/professional - 2331

2331  PRIMARY EDUCATION TEACHING PROFESSIONALS 
     Primary education teaching professionals teach a range of
subjects at the  primary education level.

     Tasks include -

(a)   preparing programme of learning and giving instruction in
      areas such as reading, writing, arithmetic and other
      subjects, within prescribed or recommended curriculum;

(b)   preparing, administering and marking tests, projects and
      assignments to train pupils and to evaluate their progress,
      and giving remedial instruction if necessary;

(c)   organising and supervising pupils' extra-curricular
      activities;

(d)   encouraging personal development of pupils and discussing
      their progress with parents and head teacher;

(e)   supervising pupils in classroom and other areas of school;

(f)   preparing reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Teacher, primary education/professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Head teacher - 1229
  Inspector, school - 2352
  Teacher, primary education/associate professional - 3310

3310  PRIMARY EDUCATION TEACHING ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Primary education teaching associate professionals teach a
range of  subjects at the primary education level.
     
     Tasks performed usually include: preparing programme of
learning, giving  instruction in a range of subjects at the
primary education level, and  organising some educational
activities; preparing reports.  Supervision of  other workers may
be included.

     Tasks include -

(a)   preparing programme of learning and giving instruction in
      areas such as reading, writing, and arithmetic, within
      prescribed or recommended curriculum-

(b)   preparing, administering and marking tests, projects and
      assignments to train pupils and to evaluate their progress,
      and giving remedial instruction if necessary;

(c)   organising and supervising pupils' extra-curricular
      activities;

(d)   encouraging personal development of pupils and discussing
      their progress with parents and head teacher;

(e)   supervising pupils in classroom and other areas of school;

(f)   preparing reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Teacher, primary education/associate professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Head teacher - 1229
  Inspector, school - 2352
  Teacher, primary education/professional - 2331

2331  PRIMARY EDUCATION TEACHING PROFESSIONALS 
     Primary education teaching professionals teach a range of
subjects at the  primary education level.

     Tasks include -

(a)   preparing programme of learning and giving instruction in
      areas such as reading, writing, arithmetic and other
      subjects, within prescribed or recommended curriculum;

(b)   preparing, administering and marking tests, projects and
      assignments to train pupils and to evaluate their progress,
      and giving remedial instruction if necessary;

(c)   organising and supervising pupils' extra-curricular
      activities;

(d)   encouraging personal development of pupils and discussing
      their progress with parents and head teacher;

(e)   supervising pupils in classroom and other areas of school;

(f)   preparing reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Teacher, primary education/professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Head teacher - 1229
  Inspector, school - 2352
  Teacher, primary education/associate professional - 3310

3310  PRIMARY EDUCATION TEACHING ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Primary education teaching associate professionals teach a
range of  subjects at the primary education level.
     
     Tasks performed usually include: preparing programme of
learning, giving  instruction in a range of subjects at the
primary education level, and  organising some educational
activities; preparing reports.  Supervision of  other workers may
be included.

     Tasks include -

(a)   preparing programme of learning and giving instruction in
      areas such as reading, writing, and arithmetic, within
      prescribed or recommended curriculum-

(b)   preparing, administering and marking tests, projects and
      assignments to train pupils and to evaluate their progress,
      and giving remedial instruction if necessary;

(c)   organising and supervising pupils' extra-curricular
      activities;

(d)   encouraging personal development of pupils and discussing
      their progress with parents and head teacher;

(e)   supervising pupils in classroom and other areas of school;

(f)   preparing reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Teacher, primary education/associate professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Head teacher - 1229
  Inspector, school - 2352
  Teacher, primary education/professional - 2331

2331  PRIMARY EDUCATION TEACHING PROFESSIONALS 
     Primary education teaching professionals teach a range of
subjects at the  primary education level.

     Tasks include -

(a)   preparing programme of learning and giving instruction in
      areas such as reading, writing, arithmetic and other
      subjects, within prescribed or recommended curriculum;

(b)   preparing, administering and marking tests, projects and
      assignments to train pupils and to evaluate their progress,
      and giving remedial instruction if necessary;

(c)   organising and supervising pupils' extra-curricular
      activities;

(d)   encouraging personal development of pupils and discussing
      their progress with parents and head teacher;

(e)   supervising pupils in classroom and other areas of school;

(f)   preparing reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Teacher, primary education/professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Head teacher - 1229
  Inspector, school - 2352
  Teacher, primary education/associate professional - 3310

3330  SPECIAL EDUCATION TEACHING ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Special education teaching associate professionals teach
physically or  mentally handicapped children, young persons or
adults, or those with learning  difficulties, at a given level
of education.

     Tasks include -

(a)   designing or modifying curricula and preparing lessons and
      activities in accordance with requirements;

(b)   giving instruction using techniques or special aids - such
      as braille or lip-reading - appropriate to pupil's handicap
      and level, and supervising work in class;

(c)   encouraging pupils to have confidence, helping them to
      discover and adopt methods which would compensate for
      limitations imposed by their handicap, and giving them a
      feeling of achievement;

(d)   administering tests, evaluating and noting progress of each
      pupil and discussing it with parents, head teacher,
      therapists, social workers, etc.;

(e)   giving private instruction;

(f)   preparing reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Teacher, remedial/associate professional
  Teacher, special education/for the blind (associate
        professional)
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally
        handicapped (associate professional)

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Teacher, remedial/professional - 2340
  Teacher, special education/for the blind (professional) 
        - 2340
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally handicapped
        (professional) - 2340

2340  SPECIAL EDUCATION TEACHING PROFESSIONALS 
     Special education teaching professionals teach physically
or mentally  handicapped children, young persons, or adults, or
those with learning  difficulties, at a given level of education.

     Tasks include -

(a)   designing or modifying curricula and preparing lessons and
      activities in accordance with requirements;

(b)   giving instruction using techniques or special aids - such
      as braille or lip-reading - appropriate to pupil's handicap
      and level, and supervising work in class;

(c)   encouraging pupils to have confidence, helping them to
      discover and adopt methods which would compensate for
      limitations imposed by their handicap, and giving them a
      feeling of achievement;

(d)    administering tests, evaluating and noting progress of
      each pupil and discussing it with parents, head teacher,
      therapists, social workers, etc.;

(e)   giving private instruction;

(f)   preparing reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Teacher, remedial/professional
  Teacher special education/for the blind (professional)
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally handicapped
        (professional)

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Teacher, remedial/associate professional - 3330
  Teacher, special education/for the blind (associate
        professional) - 3330
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally handicapped
        (associate professional) - 3330

2320  SECONDARY EDUCATION TEACHING PROFESSIONALS 
     Secondary education teaching professionals teach one or more
subjects,  for educational or vocational purposes, at some or all
levels between the  termination of primary education and the
beginning of studies at colleges or  universities.

     Tasks include -

(a)   designing and modifying curricula and preparing
      educational, as well as vocational, courses of study in
      accordance with requirements;

(b)   giving lessons in their subjects and supervising pupils'
      class work and discipline;

(c)   preparing, assigning and correcting exercises;

(d)   administering and marking tests and examinations to
      evaluate pupils' progress;

(e)   preparing reports about pupils' work and conferring with
      other teachers and parents;

(f)   teaching reading, writing and other primary subjects to
      adults;

(g)   participating at meetings concerning school's educational
      or organisational policies;

(h)   organising or assisting with extracurricular activities
      such as debating societies or hobby clubs;

(i)   giving private lessons;

(j)   per-forming related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Teacher, secondary education
  Teacher, secondary education/adult literacy
  Teacher secondary education/vocational training

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Head teacher - 1229
  Inspector, school - 2352

3330  SPECIAL EDUCATION TEACHING ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Special education teaching associate professionals teach
physically or  mentally handicapped children, young persons or
adults, or those with learning  difficulties, at a given level
of education.

     Tasks include -

(a)   designing or modifying curricula and preparing lessons and
      activities in accordance with requirements;

(b)   giving instruction using techniques or special aids - such
      as braille or lip-reading - appropriate to pupil's handicap
      and level, and supervising work in class;

(c)   encouraging pupils to have confidence, helping them to
      discover and adopt methods which would compensate for
      limitations imposed by their handicap, and giving them a
      feeling of achievement;

(d)   administering tests, evaluating and noting progress of each
      pupil and discussing it with parents, head teacher,
      therapists, social workers, etc.;

(e)   giving private instruction;

(f)   preparing reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Teacher, remedial/associate professional
  Teacher, special education/for the blind (associate
        professional)
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally
        handicapped (associate professional)

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Teacher, remedial/professional - 2340
  Teacher, special education/for the blind (professional) 
        - 2340
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally handicapped
        (professional) - 2340

2340  SPECIAL EDUCATION TEACHING PROFESSIONALS 
     Special education teaching professionals teach physically
or mentally  handicapped children, young persons, or adults, or
those with learning  difficulties, at a given level of education.

     Tasks include -

(a)   designing or modifying curricula and preparing lessons and
      activities in accordance with requirements;

(b)   giving instruction using techniques or special aids - such
      as braille or lip-reading - appropriate to pupil's handicap
      and level, and supervising work in class;

(c)   encouraging pupils to have confidence, helping them to
      discover and adopt methods which would compensate for
      limitations imposed by their handicap, and giving them a
      feeling of achievement;

(d)    administering tests, evaluating and noting progress of
      each pupil and discussing it with parents, head teacher,
      therapists, social workers, etc.;

(e)   giving private instruction;

(f)   preparing reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Teacher, remedial/professional
  Teacher special education/for the blind (professional)
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally handicapped
        (professional)

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Teacher, remedial/associate professional - 3330
  Teacher, special education/for the blind (associate
        professional) - 3330
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally handicapped
        (associate professional) - 3330

3330  SPECIAL EDUCATION TEACHING ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Special education teaching associate professionals teach
physically or  mentally handicapped children, young persons or
adults, or those with learning  difficulties, at a given level
of education.

     Tasks include -

(a)   designing or modifying curricula and preparing lessons and
      activities in accordance with requirements;

(b)   giving instruction using techniques or special aids - such
      as braille or lip-reading - appropriate to pupil's handicap
      and level, and supervising work in class;

(c)   encouraging pupils to have confidence, helping them to
      discover and adopt methods which would compensate for
      limitations imposed by their handicap, and giving them a
      feeling of achievement;

(d)   administering tests, evaluating and noting progress of each
      pupil and discussing it with parents, head teacher,
      therapists, social workers, etc.;

(e)   giving private instruction;

(f)   preparing reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Teacher, remedial/associate professional
  Teacher, special education/for the blind (associate
        professional)
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally
        handicapped (associate professional)

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Teacher, remedial/professional - 2340
  Teacher, special education/for the blind (professional) 
        - 2340
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally handicapped
        (professional) - 2340

2340  SPECIAL EDUCATION TEACHING PROFESSIONALS 
     Special education teaching professionals teach physically
or mentally  handicapped children, young persons, or adults, or
those with learning  difficulties, at a given level of education.

     Tasks include -

(a)   designing or modifying curricula and preparing lessons and
      activities in accordance with requirements;

(b)   giving instruction using techniques or special aids - such
      as braille or lip-reading - appropriate to pupil's handicap
      and level, and supervising work in class;

(c)   encouraging pupils to have confidence, helping them to
      discover and adopt methods which would compensate for
      limitations imposed by their handicap, and giving them a
      feeling of achievement;

(d)    administering tests, evaluating and noting progress of
      each pupil and discussing it with parents, head teacher,
      therapists, social workers, etc.;

(e)   giving private instruction;

(f)   preparing reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Teacher, remedial/professional
  Teacher special education/for the blind (professional)
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally handicapped
        (professional)

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Teacher, remedial/associate professional - 3330
  Teacher, special education/for the blind (associate
        professional) - 3330
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally handicapped
        (associate professional) - 3330

3330  SPECIAL EDUCATION TEACHING ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Special education teaching associate professionals teach
physically or  mentally handicapped children, young persons or
adults, or those with learning  difficulties, at a given level
of education.

     Tasks include -

(a)   designing or modifying curricula and preparing lessons and
      activities in accordance with requirements;

(b)   giving instruction using techniques or special aids - such
      as braille or lip-reading - appropriate to pupil's handicap
      and level, and supervising work in class;

(c)   encouraging pupils to have confidence, helping them to
      discover and adopt methods which would compensate for
      limitations imposed by their handicap, and giving them a
      feeling of achievement;

(d)   administering tests, evaluating and noting progress of each
      pupil and discussing it with parents, head teacher,
      therapists, social workers, etc.;

(e)   giving private instruction;

(f)   preparing reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Teacher, remedial/associate professional
  Teacher, special education/for the blind (associate
        professional)
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally
        handicapped (associate professional)

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Teacher, remedial/professional - 2340
  Teacher, special education/for the blind (professional) 
        - 2340
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally handicapped
        (professional) - 2340

2340  SPECIAL EDUCATION TEACHING PROFESSIONALS 
     Special education teaching professionals teach physically
or mentally  handicapped children, young persons, or adults, or
those with learning  difficulties, at a given level of education.

     Tasks include -

(a)   designing or modifying curricula and preparing lessons and
      activities in accordance with requirements;

(b)   giving instruction using techniques or special aids - such
      as braille or lip-reading - appropriate to pupil's handicap
      and level, and supervising work in class;

(c)   encouraging pupils to have confidence, helping them to
      discover and adopt methods which would compensate for
      limitations imposed by their handicap, and giving them a
      feeling of achievement;

(d)    administering tests, evaluating and noting progress of
      each pupil and discussing it with parents, head teacher,
      therapists, social workers, etc.;

(e)   giving private instruction;

(f)   preparing reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Teacher, remedial/professional
  Teacher special education/for the blind (professional)
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally handicapped
        (professional)

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Teacher, remedial/associate professional - 3330
  Teacher, special education/for the blind (associate
        professional) - 3330
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally handicapped
        (associate professional) - 3330

3330  SPECIAL EDUCATION TEACHING ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Special education teaching associate professionals teach
physically or  mentally handicapped children, young persons or
adults, or those with learning  difficulties, at a given level
of education.

     Tasks include -

(a)   designing or modifying curricula and preparing lessons and
      activities in accordance with requirements;

(b)   giving instruction using techniques or special aids - such
      as braille or lip-reading - appropriate to pupil's handicap
      and level, and supervising work in class;

(c)   encouraging pupils to have confidence, helping them to
      discover and adopt methods which would compensate for
      limitations imposed by their handicap, and giving them a
      feeling of achievement;

(d)   administering tests, evaluating and noting progress of each
      pupil and discussing it with parents, head teacher,
      therapists, social workers, etc.;

(e)   giving private instruction;

(f)   preparing reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Teacher, remedial/associate professional
  Teacher, special education/for the blind (associate
        professional)
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally
        handicapped (associate professional)

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Teacher, remedial/professional - 2340
  Teacher, special education/for the blind (professional) 
        - 2340
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally handicapped
        (professional) - 2340

2340  SPECIAL EDUCATION TEACHING PROFESSIONALS 
     Special education teaching professionals teach physically
or mentally  handicapped children, young persons, or adults, or
those with learning  difficulties, at a given level of education.

     Tasks include -

(a)   designing or modifying curricula and preparing lessons and
      activities in accordance with requirements;

(b)   giving instruction using techniques or special aids - such
      as braille or lip-reading - appropriate to pupil's handicap
      and level, and supervising work in class;

(c)   encouraging pupils to have confidence, helping them to
      discover and adopt methods which would compensate for
      limitations imposed by their handicap, and giving them a
      feeling of achievement;

(d)    administering tests, evaluating and noting progress of
      each pupil and discussing it with parents, head teacher,
      therapists, social workers, etc.;

(e)   giving private instruction;

(f)   preparing reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Teacher, remedial/professional
  Teacher special education/for the blind (professional)
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally handicapped
        (professional)

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Teacher, remedial/associate professional - 3330
  Teacher, special education/for the blind (associate
        professional) - 3330
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally handicapped
        (associate professional) - 3330

3330  SPECIAL EDUCATION TEACHING ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Special education teaching associate professionals teach
physically or  mentally handicapped children, young persons or
adults, or those with learning  difficulties, at a given level
of education.

     Tasks include -

(a)   designing or modifying curricula and preparing lessons and
      activities in accordance with requirements;

(b)   giving instruction using techniques or special aids - such
      as braille or lip-reading - appropriate to pupil's handicap
      and level, and supervising work in class;

(c)   encouraging pupils to have confidence, helping them to
      discover and adopt methods which would compensate for
      limitations imposed by their handicap, and giving them a
      feeling of achievement;

(d)   administering tests, evaluating and noting progress of each
      pupil and discussing it with parents, head teacher,
      therapists, social workers, etc.;

(e)   giving private instruction;

(f)   preparing reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Teacher, remedial/associate professional
  Teacher, special education/for the blind (associate
        professional)
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally
        handicapped (associate professional)

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Teacher, remedial/professional - 2340
  Teacher, special education/for the blind (professional) 
        - 2340
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally handicapped
        (professional) - 2340

2340  SPECIAL EDUCATION TEACHING PROFESSIONALS 
     Special education teaching professionals teach physically
or mentally  handicapped children, young persons, or adults, or
those with learning  difficulties, at a given level of education.

     Tasks include -

(a)   designing or modifying curricula and preparing lessons and
      activities in accordance with requirements;

(b)   giving instruction using techniques or special aids - such
      as braille or lip-reading - appropriate to pupil's handicap
      and level, and supervising work in class;

(c)   encouraging pupils to have confidence, helping them to
      discover and adopt methods which would compensate for
      limitations imposed by their handicap, and giving them a
      feeling of achievement;

(d)    administering tests, evaluating and noting progress of
      each pupil and discussing it with parents, head teacher,
      therapists, social workers, etc.;

(e)   giving private instruction;

(f)   preparing reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Teacher, remedial/professional
  Teacher special education/for the blind (professional)
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally handicapped
        (professional)

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Teacher, remedial/associate professional - 3330
  Teacher, special education/for the blind (associate
        professional) - 3330
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally handicapped
        (associate professional) - 3330

3330  SPECIAL EDUCATION TEACHING ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Special education teaching associate professionals teach
physically or  mentally handicapped children, young persons or
adults, or those with learning  difficulties, at a given level
of education.

     Tasks include -

(a)   designing or modifying curricula and preparing lessons and
      activities in accordance with requirements;

(b)   giving instruction using techniques or special aids - such
      as braille or lip-reading - appropriate to pupil's handicap
      and level, and supervising work in class;

(c)   encouraging pupils to have confidence, helping them to
      discover and adopt methods which would compensate for
      limitations imposed by their handicap, and giving them a
      feeling of achievement;

(d)   administering tests, evaluating and noting progress of each
      pupil and discussing it with parents, head teacher,
      therapists, social workers, etc.;

(e)   giving private instruction;

(f)   preparing reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.


Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Teacher, remedial/associate professional
  Teacher, special education/for the blind (associate
        professional)
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally
        handicapped (associate professional)

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Teacher, remedial/professional - 2340
  Teacher, special education/for the blind (professional) 
        - 2340
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally handicapped
        (professional) - 2340

2340  SPECIAL EDUCATION TEACHING PROFESSIONALS 
     Special education teaching professionals teach physically
or mentally  handicapped children, young persons, or adults, or
those with learning  difficulties, at a given level of education.

     Tasks include -

(a)   designing or modifying curricula and preparing lessons and
      activities in accordance with requirements;

(b)   giving instruction using techniques or special aids - such
      as braille or lip-reading - appropriate to pupil's handicap
      and level, and supervising work in class;

(c)   encouraging pupils to have confidence, helping them to
      discover and adopt methods which would compensate for
      limitations imposed by their handicap, and giving them a
      feeling of achievement;

(d)    administering tests, evaluating and noting progress of
      each pupil and discussing it with parents, head teacher,
      therapists, social workers, etc.;

(e)   giving private instruction;

(f)   preparing reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Teacher, remedial/professional
  Teacher special education/for the blind (professional)
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally handicapped
        (professional)

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Teacher, remedial/associate professional - 3330
  Teacher, special education/for the blind (associate
        professional) - 3330
  Teacher, special education/for the mentally handicapped
        (associate professional) - 3330

7431  FIBRE PREPARERS
 

     Fibre preparers prepare wool, cotton,flax, jute, hemp and
other natural  textile fibres for spinning and winding.

     Tasks include -

(a)  grading and classifying natural textile fibres;

(b)  washing wool fibres;

(c)  cleaning and fluffing textile fibres;

(d)  forming fibres into sliver, combing them, combining sliver
     into sliver laps or forming sliver into rove;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Comber, fibre/textiles
  Drawer, fibre/textiles
  Rover, fibre/textiles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator combing/textile fibres - 8261

3212  AGRONOMY AND FORESTRY TECHNICIANS 
     Agronomy and forestry technicians perform technical tasks
connected with  research in agronomy and forestry, as well as
with the development of  agricultural and forestry applications
of research results.

     Tasks  include -

(a)   preparing materials and equipment for experiments, tests
      and analyses;

(b)   collecting and preparing specimens such as plant or animal
      cells, tissues or parts or animal organs for experiments,
      tests and analyses;

(c)   assisting with and performing experiments, tests and
      analyses in their field of specialisation;

(d)   analysing samples of seeds for quality, purity and
      germination rating;

(e)   collecting data and estimating quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects;

(f)   applying knowledge of scientific principles and practices
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(g)   organising maintenance and repairs of research equipment;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, agronomy
  Technician, forestry
  Technician, soil science

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Adviser, farming - 3213
  Adviser, forestry - 3213
  Assistant, veterinary/artificial insemination - 3227
  Farm demonstrator - 3213

3145  AIR TRAFFIC SAFETY TECHNICIANS 
     Air traffic safety technicians perform technical tasks
concerning the  design, installation, operation, maintenance and
repair of air traffic control  and air navigation systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)   carrying out technical duties related to development work
      concerning electronic and electromechanical equipment of
      air navigation systems, and testing prototypes;

(b)   providing technical help in the design and layout of
      specific interface circuitry of air navigation and aircraft
      detection tracking systems;

(c)   contributing to the preparation of cost estimates and
      technical and training specifications for air traffic
      control and safety equipment;

(d)   assisting with the technical supervision of construction,
      installation and operation of ground-based air navigation
      equipment and its maintenance and repair to ensure that
      standards and recommendations are met;

(e)   applying.knowledge of air traffic safety engineering
      principles and practices in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(f)   modifying existing ground-based air navigation equipment
      to adapt it to new air traffic control procedures;

(g)   controlling and calibrating the ground-based air navigation
      instruments to ensure maximum accuracy and safety of
      flight, take-off and landing operations;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, air traffic safety

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Aeromechanic - 7232

3211  LIFE SCIENCE TECHNICIANS 
     Life science technicians perform technical tasks connected
with research  in biology or other life sciences, as well as with
the development of  industrial, agricultural, medical, public
health and other practical  applications of research results.

     Tasks  include -

(a)   preparing materials and equipment for experiments, tests
      and analyses;

(b)   collecting and preparing specimens such as plant, animal
      or human cells, and tissues, parts or organs for
      experiments, tests and analyses;

(c)   assisting with and performing experiments, tests and
      analyses in their field of specialisation;

(d)   collecting data and estimating quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects;

(e)   applying knowledge of scientific principles and practices
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(f)   organising maintenance and repairs of research equipment;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, bacteriology
  Technician, biochemistry
  Technician, blood-bank
  Technician, pharmacology
  Technician, serology
  Technician, zoology

3212  AGRONOMY AND FORESTRY TECHNICIANS 
     Agronomy and forestry technicians perform technical tasks
connected with  research in agronomy and forestry, as well as
with the development of  agricultural and forestry applications
of research results.

     Tasks  include -

(a)   preparing materials and equipment for experiments, tests
      and analyses;

(b)   collecting and preparing specimens such as plant or animal
      cells, tissues or parts or animal organs for experiments,
      tests and analyses;

(c)   assisting with and performing experiments, tests and
      analyses in their field of specialisation;

(d)   analysing samples of seeds for quality, purity and
      germination rating;

(e)   collecting data and estimating quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects;

(f)   applying knowledge of scientific principles and practices
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(g)   organising maintenance and repairs of research equipment;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, agronomy
  Technician, forestry
  Technician, soil science

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Adviser, farming - 3213
  Adviser, forestry - 3213
  Assistant, veterinary/artificial insemination - 3227
  Farm demonstrator - 3213

3111  CHEMICAL AND PHYSICAL SCIENCE TECHNICIANS 
     Chemical and physical science technicians perform technical
tasks  connected with research in chemistry, physics, geology,
geophysics,  meteorology and astronomy, as well as with the
development of industrial,  medical, military and other practical
applications of research results.

     Tasks include -

(a)   collecting samples and preparing materials and equipment
      for experiments, tests and analyses;

(b)   assisting with the design of and performing experiments,
      tests and analyses;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects, according to
      the specifications given;

(d)   applying technical knowledge in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of work;


(e)   organising maintenance and repairs of research equipment;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

      Technician, chemistry
  Technician, geology
 Technician, meteorology
 Technician, physics

3211  LIFE SCIENCE TECHNICIANS 
     Life science technicians perform technical tasks connected
with research  in biology or other life sciences, as well as with
the development of  industrial, agricultural, medical, public
health and other practical  applications of research results.

     Tasks  include -

(a)   preparing materials and equipment for experiments, tests
      and analyses;

(b)   collecting and preparing specimens such as plant, animal
      or human cells, and tissues, parts or organs for
      experiments, tests and analyses;

(c)   assisting with and performing experiments, tests and
      analyses in their field of specialisation;

(d)   collecting data and estimating quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects;

(e)   applying knowledge of scientific principles and practices
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(f)   organising maintenance and repairs of research equipment;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, bacteriology
  Technician, biochemistry
  Technician, blood-bank
  Technician, pharmacology
  Technician, serology
  Technician, zoology

3111  CHEMICAL AND PHYSICAL SCIENCE TECHNICIANS 
     Chemical and physical science technicians perform technical
tasks  connected with research in chemistry, physics, geology,
geophysics,  meteorology and astronomy, as well as with the
development of industrial,  medical, military and other practical
applications of research results.

     Tasks include -

(a)   collecting samples and preparing materials and equipment
      for experiments, tests and analyses;

(b)   assisting with the design of and performing experiments,
      tests and analyses;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects, according to
      the specifications given;

(d)   applying technical knowledge in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of work;


(e)   organising maintenance and repairs of research equipment;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

      Technician, chemistry
  Technician, geology
 Technician, meteorology
 Technician, physics

3121  COMPUTER ASSISTANTS 
     Computer assistants provide assistance to users of micro-
computers and  standard software systems at installation and when
problems occur, install new  computer programs on particular
hardware and operating systems configurations,  install new
peripheral units, and maintain and update existing programs by 
making minor changes and adjustments to them under the guidance
of Computing  professionals.

     Tasks include -

(a)   assisting users of micro-computers and standard software
      systems at installation and when problems occur;

(b)   installing new computer programs on particular hardware and
      operating systems configurations;

(c)   installing new peripheral units and making necessary
      parameter adjustments in operating systems and drives;

(d)   installing, maintaining and updating computer programs by
      making minor changes and adjustments to them, under the
      guidance of Computing professionals ;

(e)   maintaining and updating documentation of computer programs
      and installations;

(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices in the area
      of programming and computing in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Assistant, computer/programming
  Assistant, computer/systems analysis
  Assistant, computer/users' services

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Mechanic, electronics/computer - 7243
  Technician, engineering/electronics - 3114

3212  AGRONOMY AND FORESTRY TECHNICIANS 
     Agronomy and forestry technicians perform technical tasks
connected with  research in agronomy and forestry, as well as
with the development of  agricultural and forestry applications
of research results.

     Tasks  include -

(a)   preparing materials and equipment for experiments, tests
      and analyses;

(b)   collecting and preparing specimens such as plant or animal
      cells, tissues or parts or animal organs for experiments,
      tests and analyses;

(c)   assisting with and performing experiments, tests and
      analyses in their field of specialisation;

(d)   analysing samples of seeds for quality, purity and
      germination rating;

(e)   collecting data and estimating quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects;

(f)   applying knowledge of scientific principles and practices
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(g)   organising maintenance and repairs of research equipment;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, agronomy
  Technician, forestry
  Technician, soil science

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Adviser, farming - 3213
  Adviser, forestry - 3213
  Assistant, veterinary/artificial insemination - 3227
  Farm demonstrator - 3213

3211  LIFE SCIENCE TECHNICIANS 
     Life science technicians perform technical tasks connected
with research  in biology or other life sciences, as well as with
the development of  industrial, agricultural, medical, public
health and other practical  applications of research results.

     Tasks  include -

(a)   preparing materials and equipment for experiments, tests
      and analyses;

(b)   collecting and preparing specimens such as plant, animal
      or human cells, and tissues, parts or organs for
      experiments, tests and analyses;

(c)   assisting with and performing experiments, tests and
      analyses in their field of specialisation;

(d)   collecting data and estimating quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects;

(e)   applying knowledge of scientific principles and practices
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(f)   organising maintenance and repairs of research equipment;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, bacteriology
  Technician, biochemistry
  Technician, blood-bank
  Technician, pharmacology
  Technician, serology
  Technician, zoology

3115  MECHANICAL ENGINEERING TECHNICIANS 
     Mechanical engineering technicians perform technical tasks
connected with  mechanical engineering research, as well as with
the design, manufacture,  assembly, construction, operation,
maintenance and repair of machines and  mechanical installations
and facilities.

     Tasks include -

(a)   providing technical assistance connected with research and
      the development of machines and mechanical installations,
      facilities and components, or testing prototypes;

(b)   designing and preparing layouts of machines and mechanical
      installations, facilities and components according to the
      specifications given;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for manufacture and
      installation according to the specifications given;

(d)   providing technical supervision of manufacture,
      utilisation, maintenance and repair of machines and
      mechanical installations, facilities and components to
      ensure satisfactory performance and compliance with
      specifications and regulations;

(e)   applying technical knowledge of machinery and mechanical
      engineering principles and practices in order to identify
      and solve problems arising in the course of their work;

(f)   developing and monitoring the implementation of safety
      standards and procedures for marine survey work in relation
      to ships' hulls, equipment and cargoes;


(g)   coordinating and supervising activities of workers engaged
      in dry-docking vessels for cleaning, painting and repair;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Technician,engineering/aeronautics
  Technician, engineering/marine
  Technician, engineering/mechanical
  Technician,engineering/nuclear power

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Assembler, mechanical machinery 8281
  Mechanic, industrial machinery - 7233

3114  ELECTRONICS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS ENGINEERING TECHNICIANS 
     Electronics and telecommunications engineering technicians
perform  technical tasks connected with electronic and
telecommunications engineering  research, as well as with the
design, manufacture, assembly, construction,  operation,
maintenance and repair of electronic equipment and electronic and

electromechanical telecommunications systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)   providing technical assistance connected with research and
      the development of electronic and telecommunications
      equipment, or testing prototypes;

(b)   designing and preparing blueprints of electronic circuitry
      according to the specifications given;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for the manufacture and
      installation of electronic and telecommunications
      equipment, according to the specifications given;

(d)   providing technical supervision of the manufacture,
      utilisation, maintenance and repair of electronic equipment
      and telecommunications systems to ensure satisfactory
      performance and compliance with specifications and
      regulations;

(e)   applying technical knowledge of electronic and
      telecommunications engineering principles and practices in
      order to identify and solve problems arising in the course
      of their work;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Technician, engineering/electronics
  Technician, engineering/telecommunications

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Assembler, electronic equipment - 8283
  Mechanic, electronics - 7243

3116  CHEMICAL ENGINEERING TECHNICIANS 
     Chemical engineering technicians perform technical tasks
connected with  chemical engineering research, as well as with
the design, manufacture,  construction, operation, maintenance
and repair of chemical plant.

     Tasks include -

(a)   providing technical assistance connected with research and
      the development of industrial chemical processes, plant and
      equipment, or testing prototypes;

(b)   designing and preparing layouts of chemical plant according
      to the specifications given;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for manufacture and
      installation according to the specifications given;

(d)   providing technical supervision of the construction,
      installation, operation, maintenance and repair of chemical
      plant to ensure satisfactory performance and compliance
      with specifications and regulations;

(e)   applying technical knowledge of chemical engineering
      principles and practices in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;


(f)   providing technical assistance regarding technological
      aspects of particular materials, products and processes;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, engineering/chemical
  Technician, engineering/chemical process
  Technician, engineering/petroleum

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Kiln-operator, chemical and related processes - 8152
  Machine-operator, blending/chemical and related processes
        - 8151

3112  CIVIL ENGINEERING TECHNICIANS 

     Civil engineering technicians perform technical tasks
connected with  civil engineering research, as well as with the
design, construction,  operation, maintenance and repair of
buildings and other structures, such as  water supply and sewage
systems, bridges, roads, dams and airports.

     Tasks include -

(a)   performing or helping with field and laboratory tests of
      soils and construction materials;

(b)   providing technical assistance connected with the
      construction of buildings and other structures, and with
      surveys or the preparation of survey reports;

(c)   representing building architects and civil engineers on
      construction sites to ensure compliance with design
      specifications and maintenance of desired standards of
      materials and work;

(d)   applying technical knowledge of building and civil
      engineering principles and practices in order to identify
      and solve problems arising in the course of their work;

(e)   assisting with the preparation of detailed estimates of
      quantities and costs of materials and labour required for
      projects, according to the specifications given;

(f)   organising maintenance and repairs;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Clerk of works
  Technician, engineering/civil
  Technician, surveying

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Surveyor, marine - 3115
  Surveyor, quantity - 2149

3113  ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING TECHNICIANS 

     Electrical engineering technicians perform technical tasks
connected with  electrical engineering research, as well as with
the design, manufacture,  assembly, construction, operation,
maintenance and repair of electrical  equipment, facilities and
distribution systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)   providing technical assistance connected with research and
      the development of electrical equipment and facilities, or
      testing prototypes;

(b)   designing and preparing blueprints of electrical
      installations and circuitry according to the specifications
      given;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for manufacture and
      installation according to the specifications given;

(d)   providing technical supervision of the manufacture,
      installation, utilisation, maintenance and repair of
      electrical systems and equipment to ensure satisfactory
      performance and compliance with specifications and
      regulations;

(e)   applying technical knowledge of electrical engineering
      principles and practices in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Technician, engineering/electrical
  Technician, engineering/electrical (electric power
        transmission)

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Assembler, electrical equipment - 8282
  Mechanic, electrical - 7241

3114  ELECTRONICS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS ENGINEERING TECHNICIANS 
     Electronics and telecommunications engineering technicians
perform  technical tasks connected with electronic and
telecommunications engineering  research, as well as with the
design, manufacture, assembly, construction,  operation,
maintenance and repair of electronic equipment and electronic and

electromechanical telecommunications systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)   providing technical assistance connected with research and
      the development of electronic and telecommunications
      equipment, or testing prototypes;

(b)   designing and preparing blueprints of electronic circuitry
      according to the specifications given;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for the manufacture and
      installation of electronic and telecommunications
      equipment, according to the specifications given;

(d)   providing technical supervision of the manufacture,
      utilisation, maintenance and repair of electronic equipment
      and telecommunications systems to ensure satisfactory
      performance and compliance with specifications and
      regulations;

(e)   applying technical knowledge of electronic and
      telecommunications engineering principles and practices in
      order to identify and solve problems arising in the course
      of their work;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Technician, engineering/electronics
  Technician, engineering/telecommunications

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Assembler, electronic equipment - 8283
  Mechanic, electronics - 7243

3119  PHYSICAL AND ENGINEERING SCIENCE TECHNICIANS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers physical and engineering science
technicians not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 311,
Physical and engineering science  technicians.

     For instance here should be classified those who assist
engineers with  production engineering matters, time and motion
studies, or preparation of  cost estimates and bills of
quantities.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   collecting data and providing technical assistance
      regarding:

     -  planning and production methods;

     -  efficient, safe and economic utilisation of personnel,
        material and equipment;

     -  methods of work and sequence of operations and
        supervision of their implementation;

     -  time and motion aspects of work organisation;

     -  efficient layout of plant or establishment;

(b)   participating in the work concerning identification  of
      potential hazards and introducing safety procedures and
      devices;

(c)   collecting data and providing technical assistance
      regarding the preparation and monitoring of cost estimates
      and bills of quantities for construction and architectural
      projects;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, engineering/industrial efficiency
  Technician, engineering/production
  Technician, engineering/time and motion study
  Technician, quantity surveying

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, production - 2149
  Engineer, time and motion study - 2149
  Surveyor, quantity - 2149

3115  MECHANICAL ENGINEERING TECHNICIANS 
     Mechanical engineering technicians perform technical tasks
connected with  mechanical engineering research, as well as with
the design, manufacture,  assembly, construction, operation,
maintenance and repair of machines and  mechanical installations
and facilities.

     Tasks include -

(a)   providing technical assistance connected with research and
      the development of machines and mechanical installations,
      facilities and components, or testing prototypes;

(b)   designing and preparing layouts of machines and mechanical
      installations, facilities and components according to the
      specifications given;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for manufacture and
      installation according to the specifications given;

(d)   providing technical supervision of manufacture,
      utilisation, maintenance and repair of machines and
      mechanical installations, facilities and components to
      ensure satisfactory performance and compliance with
      specifications and regulations;

(e)   applying technical knowledge of machinery and mechanical
      engineering principles and practices in order to identify
      and solve problems arising in the course of their work;

(f)   developing and monitoring the implementation of safety
      standards and procedures for marine survey work in relation
      to ships' hulls, equipment and cargoes;


(g)   coordinating and supervising activities of workers engaged
      in dry-docking vessels for cleaning, painting and repair;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Technician,engineering/aeronautics
  Technician, engineering/marine
  Technician, engineering/mechanical
  Technician,engineering/nuclear power

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Assembler, mechanical machinery 8281
  Mechanic, industrial machinery - 7233

3119  PHYSICAL AND ENGINEERING SCIENCE TECHNICIANS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers physical and engineering science
technicians not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 311,
Physical and engineering science  technicians.

     For instance here should be classified those who assist
engineers with  production engineering matters, time and motion
studies, or preparation of  cost estimates and bills of
quantities.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   collecting data and providing technical assistance
      regarding:

     -  planning and production methods;

     -  efficient, safe and economic utilisation of personnel,
        material and equipment;

     -  methods of work and sequence of operations and
        supervision of their implementation;

     -  time and motion aspects of work organisation;

     -  efficient layout of plant or establishment;

(b)   participating in the work concerning identification  of
      potential hazards and introducing safety procedures and
      devices;

(c)   collecting data and providing technical assistance
      regarding the preparation and monitoring of cost estimates
      and bills of quantities for construction and architectural
      projects;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, engineering/industrial efficiency
  Technician, engineering/production
  Technician, engineering/time and motion study
  Technician, quantity surveying

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, production - 2149
  Engineer, time and motion study - 2149
  Surveyor, quantity - 2149

3117  MINING AND METALLURGICAL TECHNICIANS
 
     Mining and metallurgical technicians perform technical tasks
connected  with metallurgical research to develop improved
methods of extracting solid  minerals, oil and gas, as well as
with the design, construction, operation,  maintenance and repair
of mines and mine installations, systems for  transporting and
storing oil and natural gas, and plant for extracting metals 
from their ores and refining metal.

     Tasks include -

(a)   providing technical assistance connected with research and
      the development of processes to determine the properties
      of metal and new alloys, or of improved methods for the
      extraction of solid minerals, oil and natural gas, and for
      transporting and storing oil and natural gas, or testing
      prototypes;

(b)   providing technical assistance in geological and
      topographical surveys, and in the design and layout of oil,
      natural gas and mineral ore extraction and transport
      systems, and processing and refining plant for minerals and
      metals;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for mineral, oil and natural
      gas exploration, extraction and transport projects and
      plant, and for processing and mineral refining plant
      according to the specifications given;

(d)   providing technical supervision of the construction,
      installation, operation, maintenance and repair of mineral
      ore, oil and natural gas exploration, extraction, transport
      and storage installations and mineral processing plant to
      ensure satisfactory performance and compliance with
      specifications and regulations;

(e)   applying technical knowledge of mining, of oil and natural
      gas extraction, transport and storage, and of metallurgical
      principles and practices in order to identity and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, engineering/mining
  Technician, metallurgy/extractive

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Machine-operator, drilling/mine - 8111
  Miner - 7111
  Quarrier - 7111

3115  MECHANICAL ENGINEERING TECHNICIANS 
     Mechanical engineering technicians perform technical tasks
connected with  mechanical engineering research, as well as with
the design, manufacture,  assembly, construction, operation,
maintenance and repair of machines and  mechanical installations
and facilities.

     Tasks include -

(a)   providing technical assistance connected with research and
      the development of machines and mechanical installations,
      facilities and components, or testing prototypes;

(b)   designing and preparing layouts of machines and mechanical
      installations, facilities and components according to the
      specifications given;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for manufacture and
      installation according to the specifications given;

(d)   providing technical supervision of manufacture,
      utilisation, maintenance and repair of machines and
      mechanical installations, facilities and components to
      ensure satisfactory performance and compliance with
      specifications and regulations;

(e)   applying technical knowledge of machinery and mechanical
      engineering principles and practices in order to identify
      and solve problems arising in the course of their work;

(f)   developing and monitoring the implementation of safety
      standards and procedures for marine survey work in relation
      to ships' hulls, equipment and cargoes;


(g)   coordinating and supervising activities of workers engaged
      in dry-docking vessels for cleaning, painting and repair;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Technician,engineering/aeronautics
  Technician, engineering/marine
  Technician, engineering/mechanical
  Technician,engineering/nuclear power

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Assembler, mechanical machinery 8281
  Mechanic, industrial machinery - 7233

3116  CHEMICAL ENGINEERING TECHNICIANS 
     Chemical engineering technicians perform technical tasks
connected with  chemical engineering research, as well as with
the design, manufacture,  construction, operation, maintenance
and repair of chemical plant.

     Tasks include -

(a)   providing technical assistance connected with research and
      the development of industrial chemical processes, plant and
      equipment, or testing prototypes;

(b)   designing and preparing layouts of chemical plant according
      to the specifications given;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for manufacture and
      installation according to the specifications given;

(d)   providing technical supervision of the construction,
      installation, operation, maintenance and repair of chemical
      plant to ensure satisfactory performance and compliance
      with specifications and regulations;

(e)   applying technical knowledge of chemical engineering
      principles and practices in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;


(f)   providing technical assistance regarding technological
      aspects of particular materials, products and processes;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, engineering/chemical
  Technician, engineering/chemical process
  Technician, engineering/petroleum

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Kiln-operator, chemical and related processes - 8152
  Machine-operator, blending/chemical and related processes
        - 8151

3115  MECHANICAL ENGINEERING TECHNICIANS 
     Mechanical engineering technicians perform technical tasks
connected with  mechanical engineering research, as well as with
the design, manufacture,  assembly, construction, operation,
maintenance and repair of machines and  mechanical installations
and facilities.

     Tasks include -

(a)   providing technical assistance connected with research and
      the development of machines and mechanical installations,
      facilities and components, or testing prototypes;

(b)   designing and preparing layouts of machines and mechanical
      installations, facilities and components according to the
      specifications given;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for manufacture and
      installation according to the specifications given;

(d)   providing technical supervision of manufacture,
      utilisation, maintenance and repair of machines and
      mechanical installations, facilities and components to
      ensure satisfactory performance and compliance with
      specifications and regulations;

(e)   applying technical knowledge of machinery and mechanical
      engineering principles and practices in order to identify
      and solve problems arising in the course of their work;

(f)   developing and monitoring the implementation of safety
      standards and procedures for marine survey work in relation
      to ships' hulls, equipment and cargoes;


(g)   coordinating and supervising activities of workers engaged
      in dry-docking vessels for cleaning, painting and repair;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Technician,engineering/aeronautics
  Technician, engineering/marine
  Technician, engineering/mechanical
  Technician,engineering/nuclear power

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Assembler, mechanical machinery 8281
  Mechanic, industrial machinery - 7233

3116  CHEMICAL ENGINEERING TECHNICIANS 
     Chemical engineering technicians perform technical tasks
connected with  chemical engineering research, as well as with
the design, manufacture,  construction, operation, maintenance
and repair of chemical plant.

     Tasks include -

(a)   providing technical assistance connected with research and
      the development of industrial chemical processes, plant and
      equipment, or testing prototypes;

(b)   designing and preparing layouts of chemical plant according
      to the specifications given;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for manufacture and
      installation according to the specifications given;

(d)   providing technical supervision of the construction,
      installation, operation, maintenance and repair of chemical
      plant to ensure satisfactory performance and compliance
      with specifications and regulations;

(e)   applying technical knowledge of chemical engineering
      principles and practices in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;


(f)   providing technical assistance regarding technological
      aspects of particular materials, products and processes;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, engineering/chemical
  Technician, engineering/chemical process
  Technician, engineering/petroleum

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Kiln-operator, chemical and related processes - 8152
  Machine-operator, blending/chemical and related processes
        - 8151

3119  PHYSICAL AND ENGINEERING SCIENCE TECHNICIANS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers physical and engineering science
technicians not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 311,
Physical and engineering science  technicians.

     For instance here should be classified those who assist
engineers with  production engineering matters, time and motion
studies, or preparation of  cost estimates and bills of
quantities.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   collecting data and providing technical assistance
      regarding:

     -  planning and production methods;

     -  efficient, safe and economic utilisation of personnel,
        material and equipment;

     -  methods of work and sequence of operations and
        supervision of their implementation;

     -  time and motion aspects of work organisation;

     -  efficient layout of plant or establishment;

(b)   participating in the work concerning identification  of
      potential hazards and introducing safety procedures and
      devices;

(c)   collecting data and providing technical assistance
      regarding the preparation and monitoring of cost estimates
      and bills of quantities for construction and architectural
      projects;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, engineering/industrial efficiency
  Technician, engineering/production
  Technician, engineering/time and motion study
  Technician, quantity surveying

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, production - 2149
  Engineer, time and motion study - 2149
  Surveyor, quantity - 2149

3121  COMPUTER ASSISTANTS 
     Computer assistants provide assistance to users of micro-
computers and  standard software systems at installation and when
problems occur, install new  computer programs on particular
hardware and operating systems configurations,  install new
peripheral units, and maintain and update existing programs by 
making minor changes and adjustments to them under the guidance
of Computing  professionals.

     Tasks include -

(a)   assisting users of micro-computers and standard software
      systems at installation and when problems occur;

(b)   installing new computer programs on particular hardware and
      operating systems configurations;

(c)   installing new peripheral units and making necessary
      parameter adjustments in operating systems and drives;

(d)   installing, maintaining and updating computer programs by
      making minor changes and adjustments to them, under the
      guidance of Computing professionals ;

(e)   maintaining and updating documentation of computer programs
      and installations;

(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices in the area
      of programming and computing in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Assistant, computer/programming
  Assistant, computer/systems analysis
  Assistant, computer/users' services

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Mechanic, electronics/computer - 7243
  Technician, engineering/electronics - 3114

3119  PHYSICAL AND ENGINEERING SCIENCE TECHNICIANS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers physical and engineering science
technicians not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 311,
Physical and engineering science  technicians.

     For instance here should be classified those who assist
engineers with  production engineering matters, time and motion
studies, or preparation of  cost estimates and bills of
quantities.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   collecting data and providing technical assistance
      regarding:

     -  planning and production methods;

     -  efficient, safe and economic utilisation of personnel,
        material and equipment;

     -  methods of work and sequence of operations and
        supervision of their implementation;

     -  time and motion aspects of work organisation;

     -  efficient layout of plant or establishment;

(b)   participating in the work concerning identification  of
      potential hazards and introducing safety procedures and
      devices;

(c)   collecting data and providing technical assistance
      regarding the preparation and monitoring of cost estimates
      and bills of quantities for construction and architectural
      projects;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, engineering/industrial efficiency
  Technician, engineering/production
  Technician, engineering/time and motion study
  Technician, quantity surveying

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, production - 2149
  Engineer, time and motion study - 2149
  Surveyor, quantity - 2149

3114  ELECTRONICS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS ENGINEERING TECHNICIANS 
     Electronics and telecommunications engineering technicians
perform  technical tasks connected with electronic and
telecommunications engineering  research, as well as with the
design, manufacture, assembly, construction,  operation,
maintenance and repair of electronic equipment and electronic and

electromechanical telecommunications systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)   providing technical assistance connected with research and
      the development of electronic and telecommunications
      equipment, or testing prototypes;

(b)   designing and preparing blueprints of electronic circuitry
      according to the specifications given;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for the manufacture and
      installation of electronic and telecommunications
      equipment, according to the specifications given;

(d)   providing technical supervision of the manufacture,
      utilisation, maintenance and repair of electronic equipment
      and telecommunications systems to ensure satisfactory
      performance and compliance with specifications and
      regulations;

(e)   applying technical knowledge of electronic and
      telecommunications engineering principles and practices in
      order to identify and solve problems arising in the course
      of their work;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Technician, engineering/electronics
  Technician, engineering/telecommunications

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Assembler, electronic equipment - 8283
  Mechanic, electronics - 7243

3119  PHYSICAL AND ENGINEERING SCIENCE TECHNICIANS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers physical and engineering science
technicians not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 311,
Physical and engineering science  technicians.

     For instance here should be classified those who assist
engineers with  production engineering matters, time and motion
studies, or preparation of  cost estimates and bills of
quantities.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   collecting data and providing technical assistance
      regarding:

     -  planning and production methods;

     -  efficient, safe and economic utilisation of personnel,
        material and equipment;

     -  methods of work and sequence of operations and
        supervision of their implementation;

     -  time and motion aspects of work organisation;

     -  efficient layout of plant or establishment;

(b)   participating in the work concerning identification  of
      potential hazards and introducing safety procedures and
      devices;

(c)   collecting data and providing technical assistance
      regarding the preparation and monitoring of cost estimates
      and bills of quantities for construction and architectural
      projects;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, engineering/industrial efficiency
  Technician, engineering/production
  Technician, engineering/time and motion study
  Technician, quantity surveying

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, production - 2149
  Engineer, time and motion study - 2149
  Surveyor, quantity - 2149

3212  AGRONOMY AND FORESTRY TECHNICIANS 
     Agronomy and forestry technicians perform technical tasks
connected with  research in agronomy and forestry, as well as
with the development of  agricultural and forestry applications
of research results.

     Tasks  include -

(a)   preparing materials and equipment for experiments, tests
      and analyses;

(b)   collecting and preparing specimens such as plant or animal
      cells, tissues or parts or animal organs for experiments,
      tests and analyses;

(c)   assisting with and performing experiments, tests and
      analyses in their field of specialisation;

(d)   analysing samples of seeds for quality, purity and
      germination rating;

(e)   collecting data and estimating quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects;

(f)   applying knowledge of scientific principles and practices
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(g)   organising maintenance and repairs of research equipment;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, agronomy
  Technician, forestry
  Technician, soil science

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Adviser, farming - 3213
  Adviser, forestry - 3213
  Assistant, veterinary/artificial insemination - 3227
  Farm demonstrator - 3213

3211  LIFE SCIENCE TECHNICIANS 
     Life science technicians perform technical tasks connected
with research  in biology or other life sciences, as well as with
the development of  industrial, agricultural, medical, public
health and other practical  applications of research results.

     Tasks  include -

(a)   preparing materials and equipment for experiments, tests
      and analyses;

(b)   collecting and preparing specimens such as plant, animal
      or human cells, and tissues, parts or organs for
      experiments, tests and analyses;

(c)   assisting with and performing experiments, tests and
      analyses in their field of specialisation;

(d)   collecting data and estimating quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects;

(e)   applying knowledge of scientific principles and practices
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(f)   organising maintenance and repairs of research equipment;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, bacteriology
  Technician, biochemistry
  Technician, blood-bank
  Technician, pharmacology
  Technician, serology
  Technician, zoology

3111  CHEMICAL AND PHYSICAL SCIENCE TECHNICIANS 
     Chemical and physical science technicians perform technical
tasks  connected with research in chemistry, physics, geology,
geophysics,  meteorology and astronomy, as well as with the
development of industrial,  medical, military and other practical
applications of research results.

     Tasks include -

(a)   collecting samples and preparing materials and equipment
      for experiments, tests and analyses;

(b)   assisting with the design of and performing experiments,
      tests and analyses;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects, according to
      the specifications given;

(d)   applying technical knowledge in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of work;


(e)   organising maintenance and repairs of research equipment;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

      Technician, chemistry
  Technician, geology
 Technician, meteorology
 Technician, physics

3211  LIFE SCIENCE TECHNICIANS 
     Life science technicians perform technical tasks connected
with research  in biology or other life sciences, as well as with
the development of  industrial, agricultural, medical, public
health and other practical  applications of research results.

     Tasks  include -

(a)   preparing materials and equipment for experiments, tests
      and analyses;

(b)   collecting and preparing specimens such as plant, animal
      or human cells, and tissues, parts or organs for
      experiments, tests and analyses;

(c)   assisting with and performing experiments, tests and
      analyses in their field of specialisation;

(d)   collecting data and estimating quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects;

(e)   applying knowledge of scientific principles and practices
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(f)   organising maintenance and repairs of research equipment;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, bacteriology
  Technician, biochemistry
  Technician, blood-bank
  Technician, pharmacology
  Technician, serology
  Technician, zoology

3212  AGRONOMY AND FORESTRY TECHNICIANS 
     Agronomy and forestry technicians perform technical tasks
connected with  research in agronomy and forestry, as well as
with the development of  agricultural and forestry applications
of research results.

     Tasks  include -

(a)   preparing materials and equipment for experiments, tests
      and analyses;

(b)   collecting and preparing specimens such as plant or animal
      cells, tissues or parts or animal organs for experiments,
      tests and analyses;

(c)   assisting with and performing experiments, tests and
      analyses in their field of specialisation;

(d)   analysing samples of seeds for quality, purity and
      germination rating;

(e)   collecting data and estimating quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects;

(f)   applying knowledge of scientific principles and practices
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(g)   organising maintenance and repairs of research equipment;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, agronomy
  Technician, forestry
  Technician, soil science

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Adviser, farming - 3213
  Adviser, forestry - 3213
  Assistant, veterinary/artificial insemination - 3227
  Farm demonstrator - 3213

3211  LIFE SCIENCE TECHNICIANS 
     Life science technicians perform technical tasks connected
with research  in biology or other life sciences, as well as with
the development of  industrial, agricultural, medical, public
health and other practical  applications of research results.

     Tasks  include -

(a)   preparing materials and equipment for experiments, tests
      and analyses;

(b)   collecting and preparing specimens such as plant, animal
      or human cells, and tissues, parts or organs for
      experiments, tests and analyses;

(c)   assisting with and performing experiments, tests and
      analyses in their field of specialisation;

(d)   collecting data and estimating quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects;

(e)   applying knowledge of scientific principles and practices
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(f)   organising maintenance and repairs of research equipment;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, bacteriology
  Technician, biochemistry
  Technician, blood-bank
  Technician, pharmacology
  Technician, serology
  Technician, zoology

3117  MINING AND METALLURGICAL TECHNICIANS
 
     Mining and metallurgical technicians perform technical tasks
connected  with metallurgical research to develop improved
methods of extracting solid  minerals, oil and gas, as well as
with the design, construction, operation,  maintenance and repair
of mines and mine installations, systems for  transporting and
storing oil and natural gas, and plant for extracting metals 
from their ores and refining metal.

     Tasks include -

(a)   providing technical assistance connected with research and
      the development of processes to determine the properties
      of metal and new alloys, or of improved methods for the
      extraction of solid minerals, oil and natural gas, and for
      transporting and storing oil and natural gas, or testing
      prototypes;

(b)   providing technical assistance in geological and
      topographical surveys, and in the design and layout of oil,
      natural gas and mineral ore extraction and transport
      systems, and processing and refining plant for minerals and
      metals;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for mineral, oil and natural
      gas exploration, extraction and transport projects and
      plant, and for processing and mineral refining plant
      according to the specifications given;

(d)   providing technical supervision of the construction,
      installation, operation, maintenance and repair of mineral
      ore, oil and natural gas exploration, extraction, transport
      and storage installations and mineral processing plant to
      ensure satisfactory performance and compliance with
      specifications and regulations;

(e)   applying technical knowledge of mining, of oil and natural
      gas extraction, transport and storage, and of metallurgical
      principles and practices in order to identity and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, engineering/mining
  Technician, metallurgy/extractive

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Machine-operator, drilling/mine - 8111
  Miner - 7111
  Quarrier - 7111

3111  CHEMICAL AND PHYSICAL SCIENCE TECHNICIANS 
     Chemical and physical science technicians perform technical
tasks  connected with research in chemistry, physics, geology,
geophysics,  meteorology and astronomy, as well as with the
development of industrial,  medical, military and other practical
applications of research results.

     Tasks include -

(a)   collecting samples and preparing materials and equipment
      for experiments, tests and analyses;

(b)   assisting with the design of and performing experiments,
      tests and analyses;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects, according to
      the specifications given;

(d)   applying technical knowledge in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of work;


(e)   organising maintenance and repairs of research equipment;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

      Technician, chemistry
  Technician, geology
 Technician, meteorology
 Technician, physics

3212  AGRONOMY AND FORESTRY TECHNICIANS 
     Agronomy and forestry technicians perform technical tasks
connected with  research in agronomy and forestry, as well as
with the development of  agricultural and forestry applications
of research results.

     Tasks  include -

(a)   preparing materials and equipment for experiments, tests
      and analyses;

(b)   collecting and preparing specimens such as plant or animal
      cells, tissues or parts or animal organs for experiments,
      tests and analyses;

(c)   assisting with and performing experiments, tests and
      analyses in their field of specialisation;

(d)   analysing samples of seeds for quality, purity and
      germination rating;

(e)   collecting data and estimating quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects;

(f)   applying knowledge of scientific principles and practices
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(g)   organising maintenance and repairs of research equipment;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, agronomy
  Technician, forestry
  Technician, soil science

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Adviser, farming - 3213
  Adviser, forestry - 3213
  Assistant, veterinary/artificial insemination - 3227
  Farm demonstrator - 3213

3226  PHYSIOTHERAPISTS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Physiotherapists and related associate professionals treat
disorders of  bones, muscles and parts of the circulatory or the
nervous system by  manipulative methods, and ultrasound, heating,
laser or similar techniques, or  apply physiotherapy and related
therapies as part of the treatment for the physically disabled,
mentally ill or unbalanced.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising communities and individuals on correct body
      postures, for work or otherwise, to avoid injuries and
      strain and to strengthen muscles;


(b)   conducting examinations to make diagnoses of disorders of
      bones, muscles and parts of the circulatory or the nervous
      system to determine proper treatment or refer to Medical
      doctors, if necessary;

(c)   treating disorders of bones, muscles and parts of the
      circulatory or the nervous system by manipulative methods,
      and the use of ultrasound, heating, laser or similar
      techniques;

(d)   massaging client or patient to improve circulation, soothe
      or stimulate nerves, facilitate elimination of waste
      matter, stretch contracted tendons and produce other
      therapeutic effects;

(e)   examining body deformities and disorders to determine and
      write specifications for artificial limbs or other
      appliances, helping to fit them and explaining their use;

(f)   applying physiotherapy and related techniques as part of
      the treatment of the mentally ill or unbalanced;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Chiropractor
  Physiotherapist
  Podiatrist

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Therapist, occupational - 3229

3211  LIFE SCIENCE TECHNICIANS 
     Life science technicians perform technical tasks connected
with research  in biology or other life sciences, as well as with
the development of  industrial, agricultural, medical, public
health and other practical  applications of research results.

     Tasks  include -

(a)   preparing materials and equipment for experiments, tests
      and analyses;

(b)   collecting and preparing specimens such as plant, animal
      or human cells, and tissues, parts or organs for
      experiments, tests and analyses;

(c)   assisting with and performing experiments, tests and
      analyses in their field of specialisation;

(d)   collecting data and estimating quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects;

(e)   applying knowledge of scientific principles and practices
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(f)   organising maintenance and repairs of research equipment;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, bacteriology
  Technician, biochemistry
  Technician, blood-bank
  Technician, pharmacology
  Technician, serology
  Technician, zoology

3111  CHEMICAL AND PHYSICAL SCIENCE TECHNICIANS 
     Chemical and physical science technicians perform technical
tasks  connected with research in chemistry, physics, geology,
geophysics,  meteorology and astronomy, as well as with the
development of industrial,  medical, military and other practical
applications of research results.

     Tasks include -

(a)   collecting samples and preparing materials and equipment
      for experiments, tests and analyses;

(b)   assisting with the design of and performing experiments,
      tests and analyses;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects, according to
      the specifications given;

(d)   applying technical knowledge in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of work;


(e)   organising maintenance and repairs of research equipment;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

      Technician, chemistry
  Technician, geology
 Technician, meteorology
 Technician, physics

3211  LIFE SCIENCE TECHNICIANS 
     Life science technicians perform technical tasks connected
with research  in biology or other life sciences, as well as with
the development of  industrial, agricultural, medical, public
health and other practical  applications of research results.

     Tasks  include -

(a)   preparing materials and equipment for experiments, tests
      and analyses;

(b)   collecting and preparing specimens such as plant, animal
      or human cells, and tissues, parts or organs for
      experiments, tests and analyses;

(c)   assisting with and performing experiments, tests and
      analyses in their field of specialisation;

(d)   collecting data and estimating quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects;

(e)   applying knowledge of scientific principles and practices
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(f)   organising maintenance and repairs of research equipment;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, bacteriology
  Technician, biochemistry
  Technician, blood-bank
  Technician, pharmacology
  Technician, serology
  Technician, zoology

3212  AGRONOMY AND FORESTRY TECHNICIANS 
     Agronomy and forestry technicians perform technical tasks
connected with  research in agronomy and forestry, as well as
with the development of  agricultural and forestry applications
of research results.

     Tasks  include -

(a)   preparing materials and equipment for experiments, tests
      and analyses;

(b)   collecting and preparing specimens such as plant or animal
      cells, tissues or parts or animal organs for experiments,
      tests and analyses;

(c)   assisting with and performing experiments, tests and
      analyses in their field of specialisation;

(d)   analysing samples of seeds for quality, purity and
      germination rating;

(e)   collecting data and estimating quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects;

(f)   applying knowledge of scientific principles and practices
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(g)   organising maintenance and repairs of research equipment;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, agronomy
  Technician, forestry
  Technician, soil science

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Adviser, farming - 3213
  Adviser, forestry - 3213
  Assistant, veterinary/artificial insemination - 3227
  Farm demonstrator - 3213

3226  PHYSIOTHERAPISTS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Physiotherapists and related associate professionals treat
disorders of  bones, muscles and parts of the circulatory or the
nervous system by  manipulative methods, and ultrasound, heating,
laser or similar techniques, or  apply physiotherapy and related
therapies as part of the treatment for the physically disabled,
mentally ill or unbalanced.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising communities and individuals on correct body
      postures, for work or otherwise, to avoid injuries and
      strain and to strengthen muscles;


(b)   conducting examinations to make diagnoses of disorders of
      bones, muscles and parts of the circulatory or the nervous
      system to determine proper treatment or refer to Medical
      doctors, if necessary;

(c)   treating disorders of bones, muscles and parts of the
      circulatory or the nervous system by manipulative methods,
      and the use of ultrasound, heating, laser or similar
      techniques;

(d)   massaging client or patient to improve circulation, soothe
      or stimulate nerves, facilitate elimination of waste
      matter, stretch contracted tendons and produce other
      therapeutic effects;

(e)   examining body deformities and disorders to determine and
      write specifications for artificial limbs or other
      appliances, helping to fit them and explaining their use;

(f)   applying physiotherapy and related techniques as part of
      the treatment of the mentally ill or unbalanced;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Chiropractor
  Physiotherapist
  Podiatrist

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Therapist, occupational - 3229

3119  PHYSICAL AND ENGINEERING SCIENCE TECHNICIANS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers physical and engineering science
technicians not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 311,
Physical and engineering science  technicians.

     For instance here should be classified those who assist
engineers with  production engineering matters, time and motion
studies, or preparation of  cost estimates and bills of
quantities.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   collecting data and providing technical assistance
      regarding:

     -  planning and production methods;

     -  efficient, safe and economic utilisation of personnel,
        material and equipment;

     -  methods of work and sequence of operations and
        supervision of their implementation;

     -  time and motion aspects of work organisation;

     -  efficient layout of plant or establishment;

(b)   participating in the work concerning identification  of
      potential hazards and introducing safety procedures and
      devices;

(c)   collecting data and providing technical assistance
      regarding the preparation and monitoring of cost estimates
      and bills of quantities for construction and architectural
      projects;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, engineering/industrial efficiency
  Technician, engineering/production
  Technician, engineering/time and motion study
  Technician, quantity surveying

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, production - 2149
  Engineer, time and motion study - 2149
  Surveyor, quantity - 2149

3123  INDUSTRIAL ROBOT  CONTROLLERS
 
     Industrial robot controllers activate industrial robots,
programme or  reprogramme them for specific functions, control
their operation, and provide  basic maintenance and on-the-spot
adjustments.

     Tasks include -

(a)   programming or reprogramming industrial robots for specific
      functions within their range of capabilities;

(b)   activating industrial robots;

(c)   controlling and ensuring the smooth functioning of
      industrial robots;

(d)   trying, by careful and systematic control, to foresee and,
      if possible, to prevent malfunctioning of industrial
      robots;

(e)   providing on-the-spot adjustments of the robot mechanism;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations  classified here:

Controller, robot

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, robotics - 2149
  Operator, robot - 8172
  Technician, engineering/electronics - 3114

3211  LIFE SCIENCE TECHNICIANS 
     Life science technicians perform technical tasks connected
with research  in biology or other life sciences, as well as with
the development of  industrial, agricultural, medical, public
health and other practical  applications of research results.

     Tasks  include -

(a)   preparing materials and equipment for experiments, tests
      and analyses;

(b)   collecting and preparing specimens such as plant, animal
      or human cells, and tissues, parts or organs for
      experiments, tests and analyses;

(c)   assisting with and performing experiments, tests and
      analyses in their field of specialisation;

(d)   collecting data and estimating quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects;

(e)   applying knowledge of scientific principles and practices
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(f)   organising maintenance and repairs of research equipment;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, bacteriology
  Technician, biochemistry
  Technician, blood-bank
  Technician, pharmacology
  Technician, serology
  Technician, zoology

3212  AGRONOMY AND FORESTRY TECHNICIANS 
     Agronomy and forestry technicians perform technical tasks
connected with  research in agronomy and forestry, as well as
with the development of  agricultural and forestry applications
of research results.

     Tasks  include -

(a)   preparing materials and equipment for experiments, tests
      and analyses;

(b)   collecting and preparing specimens such as plant or animal
      cells, tissues or parts or animal organs for experiments,
      tests and analyses;

(c)   assisting with and performing experiments, tests and
      analyses in their field of specialisation;

(d)   analysing samples of seeds for quality, purity and
      germination rating;

(e)   collecting data and estimating quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects;

(f)   applying knowledge of scientific principles and practices
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(g)   organising maintenance and repairs of research equipment;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, agronomy
  Technician, forestry
  Technician, soil science

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Adviser, farming - 3213
  Adviser, forestry - 3213
  Assistant, veterinary/artificial insemination - 3227
  Farm demonstrator - 3213

3131  PHOTOGRAPHERS AND IMAGE AND SOUND RECORDING EQUIPMENT
OPERATORS 
     Photographers and image and sound recording equipment
operators take  photographs, control motion picture and video
cameras and other equipment to  record and edit images and sound.

 
    Tasks include -

(a)   taking photographs for advertising, or other commercial,
      industrial or scientific purposes and to illustrate stories
      and articles in newspapers, magazines and other
      publications;

(b)   taking portrait photographs of persons and groups of
      persons;

(c)   setting and operating motion picture, video, microscopic
      and other specialised cameras, including those for aerial
      photography, to record images;

(d)   controlling equipment to record sound for motion pictures,
      videotapes, gramophone records, audio tapes, digital discs,
      direct broadcasting or other purposes.,

(e)   controlling equipment to edit and mix image and sound
      recordings to ensure satisfactory quality and to create
      special image and sound effects;

(f)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of image and
      sound recording and editing in order to identify and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, camera/motion picture
  Operator, recording equipment/sound
  Operator, studio equipment/television
  Photographer

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Mechanic, electronics - 7243
  Photographer, photogravure - 7343
  Photolithographer - 7343
  Repairer, photographic equipment 7311

3112  CIVIL ENGINEERING TECHNICIANS 

     Civil engineering technicians perform technical tasks
connected with  civil engineering research, as well as with the
design, construction,  operation, maintenance and repair of
buildings and other structures, such as  water supply and sewage
systems, bridges, roads, dams and airports.

     Tasks include -

(a)   performing or helping with field and laboratory tests of
      soils and construction materials;

(b)   providing technical assistance connected with the
      construction of buildings and other structures, and with
      surveys or the preparation of survey reports;

(c)   representing building architects and civil engineers on
      construction sites to ensure compliance with design
      specifications and maintenance of desired standards of
      materials and work;

(d)   applying technical knowledge of building and civil
      engineering principles and practices in order to identify
      and solve problems arising in the course of their work;

(e)   assisting with the preparation of detailed estimates of
      quantities and costs of materials and labour required for
      projects, according to the specifications given;

(f)   organising maintenance and repairs;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Clerk of works
  Technician, engineering/civil
  Technician, surveying

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Surveyor, marine - 3115
  Surveyor, quantity - 2149

3211  LIFE SCIENCE TECHNICIANS 
     Life science technicians perform technical tasks connected
with research  in biology or other life sciences, as well as with
the development of  industrial, agricultural, medical, public
health and other practical  applications of research results.

     Tasks  include -

(a)   preparing materials and equipment for experiments, tests
      and analyses;

(b)   collecting and preparing specimens such as plant, animal
      or human cells, and tissues, parts or organs for
      experiments, tests and analyses;

(c)   assisting with and performing experiments, tests and
      analyses in their field of specialisation;

(d)   collecting data and estimating quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for projects;

(e)   applying knowledge of scientific principles and practices
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(f)   organising maintenance and repairs of research equipment;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, bacteriology
  Technician, biochemistry
  Technician, blood-bank
  Technician, pharmacology
  Technician, serology
  Technician, zoology

2146  CHEMICAL ENGINEERS 
     Chemical engineers conduct research and develop, advise on
and direct  commercial-scale chemical processes and production
of various substances and  items such as crude oil, petroleum
derivatives, food and drink products,  medicaments, or synthetic
materials, and direct maintenance and repair of  industrial
plant, or study and advise on technological aspects of particular        
materials, products or processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and advising on, and developing
      commercial-scale chemical processes to refine crude oil and
      other liquids or gases, and to produce substances and items
      such as petroleum derivatives, explosives, food and drink
      products, medicaments, or synthetic materials;

(b)   specifying relevant aspects of the construction of chemical
      manufacturing plants;

(c)   specifying production methods, materials and quality
      standards and ensuring that they conform to specifications;

(d)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      safety and efficiency of production operations;

(e)   locating and correcting malfunctions;


(f)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      equipment;

(g)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(h)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Engineer, chemical
  Engineer, chemical process
  Engineer, chemical/petroleum and natural gas
  Technologist, food and drink
  Technologist, fuel

2142  CIVIL ENGINEERS 
     Civil engineers conduct research and advise on, design, and
direct  construction, and manage the operation and maintenance
of civil engineering  structures, or study and advise on
technological aspects of particular  materials.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and developing new or improved theories
      and methods related to civil engineering;

(b)   advising on and designing structures such as bridges, dams,
      docks, roads, airports, railways, canals, pipelines, waste-
      disposal and flood-control systems, and industrial and
      other large buildings;

(c)   determining and specifying construction methods, materials
      and quality standards, and directing construction work;


(d)   establishing control systems to ensure efficient
      functioning of structures as well as safety and
      environmental protection;

(e)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(f)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      structures;

(g)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials;

(h)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, civil
  Engineer, civil/aerodrome construction
  Engineer, civil/bridge construction
  Engineer, civil/building construction
  Engineer, civil/highway and street construction
  Technologist, building materials

2149  ARCHITECTS, ENGINEERS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS NOT
ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers architects, engineers and related
professionals  not classified elsewhere in Minor group 214,
Architects, engineers and related  professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  conducting research, advising on or developing
procedures concerning  efficiency of production and work
organisation, as well as those who perform  quantity surveying
and those who study and advise on technological aspects of 
particular materials, products and manufacturing processes.

     In such cases tasks would include

(a)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising  on planning and production methods;

(b)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising on methods to promote the efficient, safe and
      economic utilisation of personnel, material and equipment;

(c)   making recommendations regarding methods of work and
      sequence of operations and supervising their
      implementation;

(d)   making recommendations and supervising time and motion
      aspects of work organisation;

(e)   advising on most efficient layout of plant or
      establishment;

(f)   identifying potential hazards and introducing safety
      procedures and devices;

(g)   preparing and monitoring cost estimates and bills of
      quantities for architectural and construction projects;

(h)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular manufacturing processes, such as those related
      to glass, ceramics, textiles, leather products, wood, and
      printing;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, industrial efficiency
  Engineer, production
  Engineer, time and motion study
  Surveyor, quantity
  Technologist, textiles

2146  CHEMICAL ENGINEERS 
     Chemical engineers conduct research and develop, advise on
and direct  commercial-scale chemical processes and production
of various substances and  items such as crude oil, petroleum
derivatives, food and drink products,  medicaments, or synthetic
materials, and direct maintenance and repair of  industrial
plant, or study and advise on technological aspects of particular        
materials, products or processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and advising on, and developing
      commercial-scale chemical processes to refine crude oil and
      other liquids or gases, and to produce substances and items
      such as petroleum derivatives, explosives, food and drink
      products, medicaments, or synthetic materials;

(b)   specifying relevant aspects of the construction of chemical
      manufacturing plants;

(c)   specifying production methods, materials and quality
      standards and ensuring that they conform to specifications;

(d)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      safety and efficiency of production operations;

(e)   locating and correcting malfunctions;


(f)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      equipment;

(g)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(h)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Engineer, chemical
  Engineer, chemical process
  Engineer, chemical/petroleum and natural gas
  Technologist, food and drink
  Technologist, fuel

2142  CIVIL ENGINEERS 
     Civil engineers conduct research and advise on, design, and
direct  construction, and manage the operation and maintenance
of civil engineering  structures, or study and advise on
technological aspects of particular  materials.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and developing new or improved theories
      and methods related to civil engineering;

(b)   advising on and designing structures such as bridges, dams,
      docks, roads, airports, railways, canals, pipelines, waste-
      disposal and flood-control systems, and industrial and
      other large buildings;

(c)   determining and specifying construction methods, materials
      and quality standards, and directing construction work;


(d)   establishing control systems to ensure efficient
      functioning of structures as well as safety and
      environmental protection;

(e)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(f)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      structures;

(g)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials;

(h)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, civil
  Engineer, civil/aerodrome construction
  Engineer, civil/bridge construction
  Engineer, civil/building construction
  Engineer, civil/highway and street construction
  Technologist, building materials

2143  ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS 
     Electrical engineers conduct research and advise on, design,
and direct  construction of electrical systems, motors and
equipment, and advise on and  direct their functioning,
maintenance and repairs, or study and advise on  technological
aspects of particular materials, products and processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   advising on and designing systems for electrical power
      generation, transmission and distribution;

(b)   advising on and designing systems for electrical motors,
      electrical traction and other equipment, or electrical
      domestic appliances;

(c)   specifying electrical installation and application in
      industrial and other buildings and objects and if necessary
      directing some of the work;

(d)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      efficient functioning and safety of electrical generating
      and distribution systems, motors and equipment;

(e)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(f)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      electrical systems, motors and equipment;

(g)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(h)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, electrical
  Engineer, electrical/electric power generation
  Engineer, electrical/electromechanical equipment
  Technologist, engineering/electrical

2144  ELECTRONICS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS ENGINEERS 
     Electronics and telecommunications engineers conduct
research and advise  on, design, and direct construction of
electronic systems and equipment, and  advise on and direct their
functioning, maintenance and repairs, or study and  advise on
technological aspects of particular materials, products or
processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   advising on and designing electronic devices, systems,
      motors and equipment such as computers or
      telecommunications equipment;

(b)   specifying production or installation methods, materials
      and quality standards and directing production or
      installation work of electronic or telecommunications
      products and systems;

(c)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      efficient functioning and safety of electronic systems,
      motors and equipment;

(d)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(e)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      electronic systems, motors and equipment;

(f)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(g)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, electronics
  Engineer, telecommunications
  Engineer, telecommunications/radio
  Technologist, engineering/electronics
  Technologist, engineering/telecommunications

2145  MECHANICAL ENGINEERS 
     Mechanical engineers conduct research and advise on, design,
and direct  production of machines, machinery and industrial
plant, equipment and systems,  and advise on and direct their
functioning, maintenance and repairs, or study  and advise on
technological aspects of particular materials, products or 
processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   advising on and designing machinery and tools for
      manufacturing, mining, construction, agricultural work, and
      other industrial purposes;

(b)   advising on and designing steam, internal combustion and
      other non-electric motors and engines used for propulsion
      of railway locomotives, road vehicles or aircraft, or for
      driving industrial or other machinery;

(c)   advising on and designing ships' propulsion systems, power
      plant, heating and ventilation systems, steering gear,
      pumps, and other mechanical equipment;

(d)   advising on and designing hulls and superstructures of
      ships and other vessels;

(e)   advising on and designing airframes, undercarriages and
      other equipment for aircraft;

(f)   advising on and designing road vehicle bodies, suspension
      systems, brakes and other components;

(g)   advising on and designing heating, ventilation and
      refrigeration systems and equipment;

(h)   advising on and designing mechanical plant and equipment
      for the release, control and utilisation of nuclear energy;

(i)   advising on and designing non-electrical parts of apparatus
      or products such as word processors, computers, precision
      instruments, cameras and projectors, etc.;

(j)   specifying and checking production or installation methods
      and work of agricultural and other machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment or
      systems;

(k)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      efficient functioning and safety of machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment, or
      systems;

(l)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(m)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      machines, machinery, tools, motors, engines, industrial
      plant, equipment, or systems;

(n)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(o)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;


(p)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(q)   performing related tasks;

(r)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, aeronautical
  Engineer, marine
  Engineer, mechanical
  Engineer, mechanical/agriculture
  Engineer, nuclear power
  Technologist, engineering/mechanical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, ship: 3141

2144  ELECTRONICS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS ENGINEERS 
     Electronics and telecommunications engineers conduct
research and advise  on, design, and direct construction of
electronic systems and equipment, and  advise on and direct their
functioning, maintenance and repairs, or study and  advise on
technological aspects of particular materials, products or
processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   advising on and designing electronic devices, systems,
      motors and equipment such as computers or
      telecommunications equipment;

(b)   specifying production or installation methods, materials
      and quality standards and directing production or
      installation work of electronic or telecommunications
      products and systems;

(c)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      efficient functioning and safety of electronic systems,
      motors and equipment;

(d)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(e)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      electronic systems, motors and equipment;

(f)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(g)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, electronics
  Engineer, telecommunications
  Engineer, telecommunications/radio
  Technologist, engineering/electronics
  Technologist, engineering/telecommunications

2147  MINING ENGINEERS, METALLURGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Mining engineers, metallurgists and related professionals
conduct  research, design and develop and maintain commercial-
scale methods of  extracting metals from their ores, or minerals,
water, oil or gas from the  earth and of developing new alloys,
ceramic and other materials, or study and  advise on
technological aspects of particular materials, products or
processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and advising on, designing and
      developing new or improved methods to deal with engineering
      aspects of mining and oil, gas or water extraction;

(b)   determining most suitable methods of efficient mining and
      extraction, types of machinery to be used, planning layout
      and directing construction of shafts and tunnels;

(c)   determining drilling site and devising methods of
      controlling the flow of water, oil or gas from wells;

(d)   planning and directing storage, initial treatment and
      transportation of water, oil or gas;

(e)   establishing safety standards and procedures and first-aid
      facilities, especially underground;

(f)   conducting research, developing methods of extracting
      metals from their ores and advising on their application;

(g)   investigating properties of metals and alloys, developing
      new alloys and advising on and supervising technical
      aspects of metal and alloy manufacture and processing;

(h)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials or processes;

(i)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists in particular with geologists and
      geophysicists;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, mining
  Engineer, mining/coal
  Engineer, mining/metal
  Engineer, mining/petroleum and natural gas
  Metallurgist, extractive
  Technologist, extractive

2146  CHEMICAL ENGINEERS 
     Chemical engineers conduct research and develop, advise on
and direct  commercial-scale chemical processes and production
of various substances and  items such as crude oil, petroleum
derivatives, food and drink products,  medicaments, or synthetic
materials, and direct maintenance and repair of  industrial
plant, or study and advise on technological aspects of particular        
materials, products or processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and advising on, and developing
      commercial-scale chemical processes to refine crude oil and
      other liquids or gases, and to produce substances and items
      such as petroleum derivatives, explosives, food and drink
      products, medicaments, or synthetic materials;

(b)   specifying relevant aspects of the construction of chemical
      manufacturing plants;

(c)   specifying production methods, materials and quality
      standards and ensuring that they conform to specifications;

(d)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      safety and efficiency of production operations;

(e)   locating and correcting malfunctions;


(f)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      equipment;

(g)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(h)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Engineer, chemical
  Engineer, chemical process
  Engineer, chemical/petroleum and natural gas
  Technologist, food and drink
  Technologist, fuel

2149  ARCHITECTS, ENGINEERS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS NOT
ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers architects, engineers and related
professionals  not classified elsewhere in Minor group 214,
Architects, engineers and related  professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  conducting research, advising on or developing
procedures concerning  efficiency of production and work
organisation, as well as those who perform  quantity surveying
and those who study and advise on technological aspects of 
particular materials, products and manufacturing processes.

     In such cases tasks would include

(a)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising  on planning and production methods;

(b)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising on methods to promote the efficient, safe and
      economic utilisation of personnel, material and equipment;

(c)   making recommendations regarding methods of work and
      sequence of operations and supervising their
      implementation;

(d)   making recommendations and supervising time and motion
      aspects of work organisation;

(e)   advising on most efficient layout of plant or
      establishment;

(f)   identifying potential hazards and introducing safety
      procedures and devices;

(g)   preparing and monitoring cost estimates and bills of
      quantities for architectural and construction projects;

(h)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular manufacturing processes, such as those related
      to glass, ceramics, textiles, leather products, wood, and
      printing;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, industrial efficiency
  Engineer, production
  Engineer, time and motion study
  Surveyor, quantity
  Technologist, textiles

2146  CHEMICAL ENGINEERS 
     Chemical engineers conduct research and develop, advise on
and direct  commercial-scale chemical processes and production
of various substances and  items such as crude oil, petroleum
derivatives, food and drink products,  medicaments, or synthetic
materials, and direct maintenance and repair of  industrial
plant, or study and advise on technological aspects of particular        
materials, products or processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and advising on, and developing
      commercial-scale chemical processes to refine crude oil and
      other liquids or gases, and to produce substances and items
      such as petroleum derivatives, explosives, food and drink
      products, medicaments, or synthetic materials;

(b)   specifying relevant aspects of the construction of chemical
      manufacturing plants;

(c)   specifying production methods, materials and quality
      standards and ensuring that they conform to specifications;

(d)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      safety and efficiency of production operations;

(e)   locating and correcting malfunctions;


(f)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      equipment;

(g)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(h)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Engineer, chemical
  Engineer, chemical process
  Engineer, chemical/petroleum and natural gas
  Technologist, food and drink
  Technologist, fuel

2149  ARCHITECTS, ENGINEERS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS NOT
ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers architects, engineers and related
professionals  not classified elsewhere in Minor group 214,
Architects, engineers and related  professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  conducting research, advising on or developing
procedures concerning  efficiency of production and work
organisation, as well as those who perform  quantity surveying
and those who study and advise on technological aspects of 
particular materials, products and manufacturing processes.

     In such cases tasks would include

(a)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising  on planning and production methods;

(b)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising on methods to promote the efficient, safe and
      economic utilisation of personnel, material and equipment;

(c)   making recommendations regarding methods of work and
      sequence of operations and supervising their
      implementation;

(d)   making recommendations and supervising time and motion
      aspects of work organisation;

(e)   advising on most efficient layout of plant or
      establishment;

(f)   identifying potential hazards and introducing safety
      procedures and devices;

(g)   preparing and monitoring cost estimates and bills of
      quantities for architectural and construction projects;

(h)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular manufacturing processes, such as those related
      to glass, ceramics, textiles, leather products, wood, and
      printing;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, industrial efficiency
  Engineer, production
  Engineer, time and motion study
  Surveyor, quantity
  Technologist, textiles

2146  CHEMICAL ENGINEERS 
     Chemical engineers conduct research and develop, advise on
and direct  commercial-scale chemical processes and production
of various substances and  items such as crude oil, petroleum
derivatives, food and drink products,  medicaments, or synthetic
materials, and direct maintenance and repair of  industrial
plant, or study and advise on technological aspects of particular        
materials, products or processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and advising on, and developing
      commercial-scale chemical processes to refine crude oil and
      other liquids or gases, and to produce substances and items
      such as petroleum derivatives, explosives, food and drink
      products, medicaments, or synthetic materials;

(b)   specifying relevant aspects of the construction of chemical
      manufacturing plants;

(c)   specifying production methods, materials and quality
      standards and ensuring that they conform to specifications;

(d)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      safety and efficiency of production operations;

(e)   locating and correcting malfunctions;


(f)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      equipment;

(g)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(h)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Engineer, chemical
  Engineer, chemical process
  Engineer, chemical/petroleum and natural gas
  Technologist, food and drink
  Technologist, fuel

2149  ARCHITECTS, ENGINEERS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS NOT
ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers architects, engineers and related
professionals  not classified elsewhere in Minor group 214,
Architects, engineers and related  professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  conducting research, advising on or developing
procedures concerning  efficiency of production and work
organisation, as well as those who perform  quantity surveying
and those who study and advise on technological aspects of 
particular materials, products and manufacturing processes.

     In such cases tasks would include

(a)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising  on planning and production methods;

(b)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising on methods to promote the efficient, safe and
      economic utilisation of personnel, material and equipment;

(c)   making recommendations regarding methods of work and
      sequence of operations and supervising their
      implementation;

(d)   making recommendations and supervising time and motion
      aspects of work organisation;

(e)   advising on most efficient layout of plant or
      establishment;

(f)   identifying potential hazards and introducing safety
      procedures and devices;

(g)   preparing and monitoring cost estimates and bills of
      quantities for architectural and construction projects;

(h)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular manufacturing processes, such as those related
      to glass, ceramics, textiles, leather products, wood, and
      printing;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, industrial efficiency
  Engineer, production
  Engineer, time and motion study
  Surveyor, quantity
  Technologist, textiles

2146  CHEMICAL ENGINEERS 
     Chemical engineers conduct research and develop, advise on
and direct  commercial-scale chemical processes and production
of various substances and  items such as crude oil, petroleum
derivatives, food and drink products,  medicaments, or synthetic
materials, and direct maintenance and repair of  industrial
plant, or study and advise on technological aspects of particular        
materials, products or processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and advising on, and developing
      commercial-scale chemical processes to refine crude oil and
      other liquids or gases, and to produce substances and items
      such as petroleum derivatives, explosives, food and drink
      products, medicaments, or synthetic materials;

(b)   specifying relevant aspects of the construction of chemical
      manufacturing plants;

(c)   specifying production methods, materials and quality
      standards and ensuring that they conform to specifications;

(d)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      safety and efficiency of production operations;

(e)   locating and correcting malfunctions;


(f)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      equipment;

(g)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(h)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Engineer, chemical
  Engineer, chemical process
  Engineer, chemical/petroleum and natural gas
  Technologist, food and drink
  Technologist, fuel

2145  MECHANICAL ENGINEERS 
     Mechanical engineers conduct research and advise on, design,
and direct  production of machines, machinery and industrial
plant, equipment and systems,  and advise on and direct their
functioning, maintenance and repairs, or study  and advise on
technological aspects of particular materials, products or 
processes.

     Tasks include:

(a)   advising on and designing machinery and tools for
      manufacturing, mining, construction, agricultural work, and
      other industrial purposes;

(b)   advising on and designing steam, internal combustion and
      other non-electric motors and engines used for propulsion
      of railway locomotives, road vehicles or aircraft, or for
      driving industrial or other machinery;

(c)   advising on and designing ships' propulsion systems, power
      plant, heating and ventilation systems, steering gear,
      pumps, and other mechanical equipment;

(d)   advising on and designing hulls and superstructures of
      ships and other vessels;

(e)   advising on and designing airframes, undercarriages and
      other equipment for aircraft;

(f)   advising on and designing road vehicle bodies, suspension
      systems, brakes and other components;

(g)   advising on and designing heating, ventilation and
      refrigeration systems and equipment;

(h)   advising on and designing mechanical plant and equipment
      for the release, control and utilisation of nuclear energy;

(i)   advising on and designing non-electrical parts of apparatus
      or products such as word processors, computers, precision
      instruments, cameras and projectors, etc.;

(j)   specifying and checking production or installation methods
      and work of agricultural and other machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment or
      systems;

(k)   establishing control standards and procedures to ensure
      efficient functioning and safety of machines, machinery,
      tools, motors, engines, industrial plant, equipment, or
      systems;

(l)   locating and correcting malfunctions;

(m)   organising and directing maintenance and repair of existing
      machines, machinery, tools, motors, engines, industrial
      plant, equipment, or systems;

(n)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular materials, products or processes;

(o)   maintaining technical liaison and consultancy with other
      relevant specialists;


(p)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(q)   performing related tasks;

(r)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, aeronautical
  Engineer, marine
  Engineer, mechanical
  Engineer, mechanical/agriculture
  Engineer, nuclear power
  Technologist, engineering/mechanical

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Engineer, ship: 3141

2149  ARCHITECTS, ENGINEERS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS NOT
ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers architects, engineers and related
professionals  not classified elsewhere in Minor group 214,
Architects, engineers and related  professionals.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  conducting research, advising on or developing
procedures concerning  efficiency of production and work
organisation, as well as those who perform  quantity surveying
and those who study and advise on technological aspects of 
particular materials, products and manufacturing processes.

     In such cases tasks would include

(a)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising  on planning and production methods;

(b)   consulting with management and supervisory personnel and
      advising on methods to promote the efficient, safe and
      economic utilisation of personnel, material and equipment;

(c)   making recommendations regarding methods of work and
      sequence of operations and supervising their
      implementation;

(d)   making recommendations and supervising time and motion
      aspects of work organisation;

(e)   advising on most efficient layout of plant or
      establishment;

(f)   identifying potential hazards and introducing safety
      procedures and devices;

(g)   preparing and monitoring cost estimates and bills of
      quantities for architectural and construction projects;

(h)   studying and advising on technological aspects of
      particular manufacturing processes, such as those related
      to glass, ceramics, textiles, leather products, wood, and
      printing;

(i)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(j)   performing related tasks;

(k)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Engineer, industrial efficiency
  Engineer, production
  Engineer, time and motion study
  Surveyor, quantity
  Technologist, textiles

3132  BROADCASTING AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT OPERATORS 
     Broadcasting and telecommunications equipment operators
control technical  functioning of equipment for transmitting
radio and television broadcasts of  prerecorded or live images
and sounds, as well as other types of telecommunications signals
on land and sea or in aircraft.
     
     Tasks include -

(a)   controlling transmitting and broadcasting systems and
      satellite systems for radio and television programmes;

(b)   controlling radio communications systems, satellite
      services and multiplex systems on land and sea and in
      aircraft;

(c)   controlling cinema projection equipment;

(d)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of
      broadcasting, telecommunications terminals and transmission
      systems, in order to identify and solve problems arising
in
      the course of their work and maintain equipment;

(e)   keeping logs of operations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Operator, broadcasting equipment/ radio
  Operator, telecommunications equipment
  Operator, transmitting equipment/television

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Mechanic, electronics - 7243
  Technician, engineering/telecommunications - 3114

4223  TELEPHONE SWITCHBOARD OPERATORS
 
     Telephone switchboard operators operate a telephone
switchboard or a  section thereof, and deal with local or long
distance calls, and various  telephone inquiries.
     Tasks include -

(a)  establishing contact between caller and person called;
(b)  making connections for outgoing calls, and routing long-
     distance calls;
(c)  recording charges;
(d)  dealing with telephone inquiries and recording messages;
(e)  performing related tasks;
(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Switchboard-operator, telephone

4112 WORD-PROCESSOR AND RELATED OPERATORS
 
     Word-processor and related operators type, edit, and print
various  documents using word-processing equipment, or send and
receive messages and  facsimiles by means of a teleprinter,
telefax or similar machines.
     Tasks include -

(a)  typing correspondence, business forms and other documents
     into word-processing machines;
(b)  planning and executing layout and format, if not preset;
(c)  altering, rearranging and editing typed text;
(d)  operating printer, usually linked to the word processor;
(e)  sending and receiving messages or facsimiles by means of a
     teleprinter, telefax or similar machines-,
(f)  performing limited clerical duties;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, telefax
  Clerk, teleprinter
  Clerk, telex
  Clerk, word processing

4212  TELLERS AND OTHER COUNTER CLERKS
 
     Tellers and other counter clerks deal directly with clients
of banks or  post offices in connection with receiving, changing
and paying out money, or  providing mail services.
     Tasks include -

(a)  receiving money or cheques from clients;
(b)  paying out money to clients;
(c)  paying bills and making money transfers on clients' behalf;
(d)  crediting and debiting clients' accounts;
(e)  changing money from one currency to another, as requested
     by clients;
(f)  making records of all transactions and reconciling them with
     cash balance;
(g)  receiving mail, selling postage stamps and conducting other
     post office counter business such as bill payments, money
     transfers and related business;
(h)  performing related tasks;
(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, post office counter
  Money changer
  Teller, bank

7412  BAKERS, PASTRY-COOKS AND CONFECTIONERY MAKERS
 

     Bakers, pastry-cooks and confectionery makers make various
kinds of  bread, cakes, and other flour products, as well as
handmade chocolate and  sugar confectionery.

     Tasks include  -

(a)  making bread, cakes, biscuits, pastries, pies and other
     flour products;

(b)  making handmade confectionery from mixtures of sugar,
     chocolate and other ingredients with the help of tools and
     some machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Baker
  Confectioner
  Maker, chocolate
 Pastry-cook
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cook - 5122
  Machine-operator, bakery products 8274
  Machine-operator, bread production 8274
  Machine-operator, chocolate production - 8274

8112  MINERAL-ORE- AND STONE-PROCESSING-PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Mineral-ore- and stone-processing-plant operators operate
and monitor  machinery and equipment for processing mineral ore
and stone.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring equipment which crushes and breaks
     lumps of minerals and stones to required size;

(b)  operating and monitoring washing, separating, leaching,
     precipitating, filtering, extracting and combining equipment
     to wash mineral ores in order to remove waste material;

(c)  combining mineral ores with solvents to facilitate further
     processing;

(d)  separating metal or mineral concentrates from ore or
     alluvial deposits by thickening, flotation, gravity
     separation, filtration, or magnetic or electrostatic
     separation;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Floatation worker, minerals
  Machine-operator, crushing/mineral ore
  Machine-operator, milling/minerals
  Machine-operator, stone processing
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Cutter, stone - 7113
  Splitter, stone - 7113

8333  CRANE, HOIST AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS
 

     Crane, hoist and related plant operators operate and monitor
cranes and  other hoisting equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring mobile or stationary cranes with
     mobile or fixed jib or boom ;

(b)  operating and monitoring equipment for hoisting, lowering
     or raising men and materials on construction site or in
     mine;

(c)  operating and monitoring ski-lifts and similar equipment;

(d)  operating and monitoring machinery used to haul ferry or
     barge with goods, passengers and vehicles across short
     stretches of water;

(e)  operating and monitoring machinery to open and close bridge
     for the passage of road and water traffic;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, crane
  Operator, hoist

8163  INCINERATOR, WATER-TREATMENT AND RELATED PLANT OPERATORS

 

     Incinerator, water-treatment and related plant operators
operate and  monitor various types of plant, such as
incinerators, water treatment plant,  air and gas compressors,
pumping stations, refrigeration or heating and  ventilation
systems.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring incinerator machinery and equipment
     which burn garbage or other waste materials;

(b)  operating and monitoring machinery and equipment which
     purify and clarify water for human consumption or use and
     later disposal into natural water systems;

(c)  operating and monitoring air and gas compressors';

(d)  operating and monitoring pumping stations for transferring
     liquids, gases, semi-liquids and powdered substances from
     one location to another;

(e)  operating and monitoring refrigeration systems for cool or
     cold storage, or industrial processes;

(f)  operating and monitoring heating and ventilation systems ;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Operator, incinerator/refuse disposal
  Operator, pumping-station/water
  Operator, water purification plant

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

7123  CONCRETE PLACERS, CONCRETE FINISHERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Concrete placers, concrete finishers and related workers
erect reinforced  concrete frameworks and structures, make forms
for moulding concrete,  reinforce concrete surfaces, cement
openings in walls or casings for wells,  finish and repair cement
surfaces and carry out terrazzo work.
     
     Tasks include -

(a)  constructing and repairing reinforced concrete floors,
     walls, tanks, silos and other concrete structures;

(b)  making shuttering or assembling prefabricated forms for
     moulding concrete;

(c)  cementing openings in walls or casings for wells;

(d)  finishing and smoothing surfaces of concrete structures;

(e)  applying a durable, smooth surfacing composed of cement,
     sand pigment and marble particles to floors, known as a
     terrazzo finish;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Finisher, cement
  Placer, concrete
  Terrazzo worker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, finishing/concrete 8212
  Operator, road surface laying machinery - 8332

3143  AIRCRAFT PILOTS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Aircraft pilots and related associate professionals control
the operation  of mechanical, electrical and electronic
equipment, in order to navigate  aircraft for transporting
passengers, mail and freight and perform related  preflight and
in-flight tasks.

  
   Tasks include -

(a)   flying and navigating aircraft in accordance with
      established control and operating procedures;

(b)   preparing and submitting flight plan or examining standard
      flight plan;

(c)   controlling the operation of mechanical, electrical and
      electronic equipment and ensuring that all instruments and
      controls work properly;

(d)   applying knowledge of principles and practices of flying
      in order to identify and solve problems arising in the
      course of their work;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Engineer, flight
  Navigator, flight
  Pilot, aircraft

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Instructor, flying - 3340

7131  ROOFERS
 

     Roofers cover, maintain and repair roof frameworks with one
or more kinds  of material.

     Tasks include -

(a)  covering roof frameworks with slates and tiles, synthetic
     materials, asphalt, metal sheets, or thatching materials;

(b)  performing related tasks;

(c)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Roofer, asphalt
  Roofer, metal
  Roofer, slate
  Roofer, tile
  Thatcher

2460  RELIGIOUS PROFESSIONALS 
      
     Religious professionals function as perpetrators of the
sacred  traditions, practices and beliefs and celebrate or
administer at the rituals  of initiation, preside over ritual
reenactments of creative, redemptive or  salvatory events, and
offer sacrifices to the gods or to one God.

     Tasks include -

(a)   perpetuating sacred traditions, practices and beliefs;

(d)   conducting religious services, rites and ceremonies;

(c)   undertaking various administrative and social duties,
      including a ending committees and meetings of religious
      organisations;

(d)   providing spiritual and moral guidance in accordance with
      the religion professed;

(e)   propagating religious doctrines in own country or abroad;

(f)   preparing religious sermons and preachings;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bonze
  Imam
  Minister, religion
  Monk, professional
  Nun, professional
  Poojari
  Priest
  Rabbi

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Monk, associate professional - 3480
  Nun, associate professional - 3480
  Preacher, lay - 3480

3229  MODERN HEALTH ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS (EXCEPT NURSING) NOT
ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers modern health associate professionals
(except  nursing) not classified elsewhere in Minor group 322,
Modem health associate  professionals (except nursing).

     For instance, here should be classified those who practise
homeopathy,  plan and carry out therapeutical activities to help
the mentally unbalanced,  ill, or physically handicapped, deal
with speech impediments, provide eye  exercises as remedial
treatment, or deal with orientation problems of the  blind.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   treating a particular illness by giving the patient
      infinitesimal doses of the bodies which provoke similar
      illnesses;

(b)   planning or carrying out therapeutic activities connected
      with education, vocational training or recreation in order
      to help the mentally unbalanced, ill, or physically
      handicapped;

(c)   dealing with pronunciation defects;

(d)   correcting sonority of language pronunciation;

(e)   applying remedial treatment to the eye muscles by means of
      eye exercises;

(f)   treating orientation problems of the blind;

(g)   performing related tasks;


(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 Homeopath
  Orthoepist
  Orthophonist
  Therapist, occupational

3226  PHYSIOTHERAPISTS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS 
     Physiotherapists and related associate professionals treat
disorders of  bones, muscles and parts of the circulatory or the
nervous system by  manipulative methods, and ultrasound, heating,
laser or similar techniques, or  apply physiotherapy and related
therapies as part of the treatment for the physically disabled,
mentally ill or unbalanced.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising communities and individuals on correct body
      postures, for work or otherwise, to avoid injuries and
      strain and to strengthen muscles;


(b)   conducting examinations to make diagnoses of disorders of
      bones, muscles and parts of the circulatory or the nervous
      system to determine proper treatment or refer to Medical
      doctors, if necessary;

(c)   treating disorders of bones, muscles and parts of the
      circulatory or the nervous system by manipulative methods,
      and the use of ultrasound, heating, laser or similar
      techniques;

(d)   massaging client or patient to improve circulation, soothe
      or stimulate nerves, facilitate elimination of waste
      matter, stretch contracted tendons and produce other
      therapeutic effects;

(e)   examining body deformities and disorders to determine and
      write specifications for artificial limbs or other
      appliances, helping to fit them and explaining their use;

(f)   applying physiotherapy and related techniques as part of
      the treatment of the mentally ill or unbalanced;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Chiropractor
  Physiotherapist
  Podiatrist

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Therapist, occupational - 3229

3229  MODERN HEALTH ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS (EXCEPT NURSING) NOT
ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED 
     This unit group covers modern health associate professionals
(except  nursing) not classified elsewhere in Minor group 322,
Modem health associate  professionals (except nursing).

     For instance, here should be classified those who practise
homeopathy,  plan and carry out therapeutical activities to help
the mentally unbalanced,  ill, or physically handicapped, deal
with speech impediments, provide eye  exercises as remedial
treatment, or deal with orientation problems of the  blind.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)   treating a particular illness by giving the patient
      infinitesimal doses of the bodies which provoke similar
      illnesses;

(b)   planning or carrying out therapeutic activities connected
      with education, vocational training or recreation in order
      to help the mentally unbalanced, ill, or physically
      handicapped;

(c)   dealing with pronunciation defects;

(d)   correcting sonority of language pronunciation;

(e)   applying remedial treatment to the eye muscles by means of
      eye exercises;

(f)   treating orientation problems of the blind;

(g)   performing related tasks;


(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 Homeopath
  Orthoepist
  Orthophonist
  Therapist, occupational

2111  PHYSICISTS AND ASTRONOMERS 
     Physicists and astronomers conduct research, improve or
develop concepts,  theories and operational methods, or apply
scientific knowledge relating to  physics and astronomy in
industrial, medical, military or other fields.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research, and improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods related to physics and
      astronomy-.

(b)   conducting experiments, tests and analyses in fields such
      as mechanics, thermodynamics, optics, sonics, electricity,
      magnetism, electronics and nuclear physics, or astronomy;

(c)   conducting experiments, tests and analyses of the structure
      and properties of matter in solid state and its behaviour
      under temperature, pressure, stress and other conditions;

(d)   evaluating results of investigations and experiments and
      expressing conclusions, mainly using mathematical
      techniques and models;

(e)   developing or improving industrial, medical, military and
      other practical applications of the principles and
      techniques of physics or astronomy'.

(f)   observing, analysing and interpreting celestial phenomena
      and developing methods and techniques to be used in fields
      such as navigation or space exploration;

(g)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(h)   performing related tasks;

(i)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Astronomer

  Physicist

7432  WEAVERS, KNITTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

  
     Weavers, knitters and related workers spin and wind yarn by
hand, weave  materials on hand looms, make carpets by using a
knotting technique, knit  garment fabrics by hand or hand-
operated machine or perform similar  manufacturing tasks by hand
or hand-operated machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  spinning and winding yarn by hand;

(b)  drawing warp threads into loom by hand;

(c)  weaving plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpet or
     other fabrics on hand looms;

(d)  making carpets by using a knotting technique;

(e)  knitting garments and other articles on hand-operated
     machine or by hand;

(f)  crocheting or making braid by hand;

(g)  making nets by hand;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Knitter
  Spinner, thread and yarn
  Threader, loom
  Weaver, carpet
  Weaver cloth
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, knitting - 8262
  Machine-operator, weaving - 8262

7321  ABRASIVE WHEEL FORMERS, POTTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Abrasive wheel formers, potters and related workers make
pottery,  porcelain ware, bricks, tiles and abrasive wheels.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making articles of pottery and porcelain;

(b)  making clay or plaster-of-Paris moulds;

(c)  forming articles on potter's wheel with hands, or using
     interior or exterior moulding shapes and shaping tools;

(d)  forming articles by casting semi-liquid clay in plaster-of-
     Paris moulds;

(e)  forming bricks and tiles into special shapes by hand;

(f)  making articles by pressing plastic clay into moulds by
     hand;

(g)  operating screw-press or hydraulic press to make products
     from clay dust;

(h)  operating a machine which extrudes moist clay for further
     processing;

(i)  forming abrasive wheels by moulding and pressing abrasive
     mixture;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Caster, pottery and porcelain
  Modeller, pottery and porcelain
  Potter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln operator, brick and tile - 8131
  Kiln operator, pottery and porcelain 8131

7132  FLOOR LAYERS AND TILE SETTERS
 

     Floor layers and tile setters install, maintain and repair
parquet and  other kinds of flooring, or they cover floors, walls
and other surfaces with tiles or mosaic panels for decorative or
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  preparing floor areas for covering with parquet, tiles or
     other materials;

(b)  assembling parquetry pieces or other materials and laying
     them on floors according to design and other specifications;

(c)  preparing wall areas for covering with tiles or other
     materials for decorative or other purposes such as
     acoustical insulation;

(d)  setting tiles and constructing and laying mosaic panels to
     walls, floors and other surfaces;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Parquetry worker 
 Setter, marble 
 Setter, tile

7129  BUILDING FRAME AND RELATED TRADES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers building frame and related trades
workers not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 712, Building
frame and related trades  workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who perform
miscellaneous  construction and building maintenance tasks.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  performing miscellaneous construction and building
     maintenance work on structures such as office buildings,
     apartment houses, factories and similar establishments in
     good repair;

(b)  performing construction, maintenance or repair work at
     unusual heights;

(c)  erecting temporary metal or wooden scaffolding on building
     sites;

(d)  demolishing buildings and other structures;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Demolition worker
  Housebuilder, non-traditional materials
  Scaffolder
  Steeplejack
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Labourer, construction/buildings 9313
  Labourer, demolition - 9313

7111  MINERS AND QUARRY WORKERS
 

     Miners and quarry workers extract solid minerals from
underground or  surface mines or quarries.

     Tasks include -

(a)  extracting coal, ores and other solid minerals from
     underground or surface mines;

(b)  extracting granite, limestone, slate, flint or other kinds
     of rocks from quarries;

(c)  setting and operating machines which cut channels or drill
     blasting holes into the open face of mines or quarries;

(d)  cutting, fitting and installing wood or steel props, pillars
     and arches to support walls and roof of underground
     workings;

(e)  collecting samples of coal or ore for laboratory analysis;

(f)  extracting chalk, clay, gravel or sand from open pits;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Miner
  Quarrier
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, drilling/mine - 8111
  Machine-operator, mining/continuous - 8111

4190  OTHER OFFICE CLERKS
 
     Other office clerks perform a wide range of general clerical
duties  mostly connected with the keeping of various office
records.
     Tasks include -

(a)  keeping personnel records of all the organisation's
     employees, showing name, address, and other details;
(b)  keeping personnel records of employees' leave and other
     information;
(c)  preparing and maintaining the organisation's address and
     telephone lists;
(d)  preparing and maintaining the organisation's mailing lists;
(e)  performing related tasks;
(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Clerk, compilation/directory
  Clerk, list/addresses
  Clerk, records/personnel

9112  STREET VENDORS, NON-FOOD PRODUCTS
 

     Street vendors, non-food products sell various goods in
streets and  public places such as stations, cinemas or theatres.

     Tasks include -

(a)  buying or making various items for sale

(b)  loading and unloading push-cart, bicycle, truck or other
     vehicle, to transport goods to the streets or public places
     such as stations or cinemas;

(c)  displaying goods ;

(d)  approaching customer and selling newspapers or similar
     goods;

(e)  receiving payment on the spot;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Hawker
  Pedlar
  Vendor, theatre programme
  Vendor, street/non-food products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Salesperson, market - 5230
  Salesperson, street stall - 5230
  Vendor, street/food - 9111

7213  SHEET-METAL WORKERS
 

     Sheet-metal workers make, install and repair articles and
parts of  articles of sheet metal such as sheet steel, copper,
tin, brass, aluminium,  zinc or galvanised iron.

     Tasks include -

(a)  marking sheet metal for cutting and shaping;

(b)  making and repairing household utensils and other articles
     in tin, copper and light alloys, or ornamental articles and
     fittings;

(c)  making and repairing boilers, tanks, vats and similar
     containers;

(d)  installing and repairing sheet-metal parts of vehicles and
     aircraft;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Boiler smith
  Coppersmith
  Sheet-metal worker
  Tinsmith

7416  TOBACCO PREPARERS AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS MAKERS
 

     Tobacco preparers and tobacco products makers prepare
tobacco leaves and  make various tobacco products.

     Tasks  include -

(a)  grading cured tobacco leaves by type, quality and locality
     where grown;

(b)  mixing tobacco leaves according to formula to obtain a blend
     of distinct flavour;

(c)  tending vacuum container which moistens tobacco for further
     processing;

(d)  removing midribs and stalks from tobacco leaves and
     shredding tobacco;

(e)  making cigars, cigarettes, snuff and other tobacco products
     by hand or with simple machines;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Grader, tobacco
  Maker, cigar
  Maker, cigarette
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, cigar production - 8279
  Machine-operator, cigarette production - 8279

7312  MUSICAL-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND TUNERS
 

     Musical-instrument makers and tuners make, repair and tune
stringed, wind  or percussion instruments with hand or power
tools.

     Tasks include

(a)  making and repairing accordions, stringed and wind
     instruments;

(b)  building and repairing organs and making parts for such
     organs;

(c)  making instrumental parts of pianos and assembling and
     repairing such pianos;

(d)  tuning organs, pianos and other instruments;

(e)  making and repairing other musical instruments;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/musical (brass)
  Maker, instrument/musical (string)
  Maker, instrument/musical (woodwind)
  Tuner, musical instrument

7222  TOOL-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Tool-makers and related workers make and repair tools,
sports guns,  locks, dies, patterns and other metal articles, as
well as make engines or  machinery components, and parts thereof,
using hand and machine tools to work  metal to fine tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, maintaining and repairing dies, jigs, gauges and
     fixtures, using hand tools and various kinds of machine
     tools;

(b)  making engines or machinery components, and parts thereof;

(c)  fitting and assembling parts to make and repair jigs,
     fixtures and gauges;

(d)  repairing and modifying sports guns and other small arms;

(e)  making, fitting, assembling, repairing and installing lock
     parts and locks;

(f)  making and repairing metal patterns for preparation of
     foundry moulds;

(g)  laying out lines and reference points on metal stock to
     guide other workers who cut, turn, mill, grind or otherwise
     shape metal;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Gunsmith
  Locksmith
  Toolmaker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator tool production - 8211

7221  BLACKSMITHS, HAMMER-SMITHS AND FORGING-PRESS WORKERS
 

     Blacksmiths, hammer-smiths and forging-press workers draw
wire, hammer  and forge bars, rods, ingots and plates of iron,
steel or other metals to make  and repair various kinds of tools,
metal articles, pieces of equipment,  agricultural and related
implements.

     Tasks include -

(a)  heating metal in forge furnace and manufacturing and
     repairing articles by drawing, bending, cutting, hammering
     metal on an anvil, punching, shearing, joining and hardening
     or tempering;

(b)  shaping heated metal into forgings on power hammer equipped
     with open dies;

(c)  operating closed-die drop hammer to forge metal articles;

(d)  operating a power-press machine equipped with closed dies
to
     forge metal articles;

(e)  drawing wire;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Blacksmith
  Drop-hammer worker
  Forging-press worker
  Hammer-smith
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, casting/metal - 8122
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

6141  FORESTRY WORKERS AND LOGGERS
 
     Forestry workers and loggers carry out the necessary
operations to  cultivate, conserve and exploit forests, for sale
or delivery of forestry  products on a regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a) establishing and caring for forest stands;

(b)  locating trees to be felled and estimating volume of timber;

(c)  trimming, topping and felling trees and sawing them into
     logs;

(d)  shaping rough wooden products from logs at felling site;

(e)  stacking logs, loading them in chutes or floating them down
     rivers;

(f)  keeping watch to detect forest fires and participating in
     firefighting operations;

(g)  delivering or marketing forestry products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Climber, logging
  Cruiser, timber
  Feller-bucker, tree
  Forestry worker, skilled
  Logger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/forestry
        - 1221
  General manager, forestry - 1311
  Labourer, forestry - 9212
  Managing director, enterprise/forestry - 1210
  Operator, forestry machinery - 8331

7324  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED DECORATIVE PAINTERS
 

     Glass, ceramics and related decorative painters decorate
articles made of  wood, metal, textiles, glass, ceramics and
other materials, and plan, lay out  and paint letters and designs
to make signs.

     Tasks include -

(a)  painting designs on articles with a brush, by spraying, or
     by transferring designs using stencils, transfers, rubber
     stamps and other means;

(b)  applying, for decorative purposes, paint, glaze, enamel,
     stain, varnish, lacquer and similar materials on articles
     by spraying or dipping;

(c)  coating mirror glass with silver solutions;

(d)  laying out and painting letters and designs to make signs;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, glass
  Painter, decorative
  Sign-writer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, painting/ceramics - 8131
  Machine-operator, painting/glass - 8131
  Painter, building - 7141
  Painter, manufactured articles - 7142
  Painter, vehicle - 7142

2212  PHARMACOLOGISTS, PATHOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Pharmacologists, pathologists and related professionals
conduct research,  improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and apply  scientific knowledge relating to
anatomy, biochemistry, biophysics,  physiology, pathology, or
pharmacology, in such fields as medicine,  agriculture or
industry.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   studying and conducting experiments 

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the chemical
      composition and processes of living organisms;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the life
      processes and functions of human, animal or plant organs,
      tissues, cells, glands and systems under normal and
      abnormal or exceptional conditions;

(e)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the nature,
      causes and development of human, animal or plant diseases
      and disorders;

(f)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the effects
      of drugs and other substances on the tissues, organs and
      physiological processes of human beings and animals, and
      improving existing or developing new drugs;

(g)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Anatomist
  Biochemist
  Biophysicist
  Pathologist
  Pharmacologist
  Physiologist

7223    MACHINE-TOOL SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool setters and setter-operators set for operators,
or set and  operate, various machine tools working to fine
tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting one or more types of machine tools for operators to
     produce metal articles in standardised series;

(b)  setting and operating a variety of machine tools;

(c)  setting and operating particular types of metalworking
     machines, such as lathe, milling, planing, boring, drilling,
     grinding or honing machines, including multipurpose
     numerically controlled metalworking machines;

(d)  performing similar tasks when machining plastics and other
     metal substitutes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Setter, machine tool
  Setter-operator, drilling machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, grinding machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, lathe/metalworking
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, drilling/metal - 8211
  Machine-operator, grinding/metal 8211
  Machine-operator, machine tool - 8211

7324  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED DECORATIVE PAINTERS
 

     Glass, ceramics and related decorative painters decorate
articles made of  wood, metal, textiles, glass, ceramics and
other materials, and plan, lay out  and paint letters and designs
to make signs.

     Tasks include -

(a)  painting designs on articles with a brush, by spraying, or
     by transferring designs using stencils, transfers, rubber
     stamps and other means;

(b)  applying, for decorative purposes, paint, glaze, enamel,
     stain, varnish, lacquer and similar materials on articles
     by spraying or dipping;

(c)  coating mirror glass with silver solutions;

(d)  laying out and painting letters and designs to make signs;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, glass
  Painter, decorative
  Sign-writer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, painting/ceramics - 8131
  Machine-operator, painting/glass - 8131
  Painter, building - 7141
  Painter, manufactured articles - 7142
  Painter, vehicle - 7142

9312  CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE LABOURERS:  ROADS, DAMS AND SIMILAR  CONSTRUCTIONS
 

     Construction and maintenance labourers perform simple and
routine tasks  in connection with the building and maintenance
of  roads, dams and similar  constructions.

     Tasks include -

(a)  digging and filling holes and trenches, spreading gravel and
     related materials and performing other tasks related to the
     building and maintenance of railway tracks and roads;

(b)  carrying bricks and mortar to bricklayer or helping in other
     ways in the building of dams and similar constructions;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, construction
  Labourer, maintenance/dams

3475  ATHLETES, SPORTSPERSONS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Athletes, sportspersons and related associate professionals
participate  in competitive sporting events, conduct sports
training, compile rules  concerning sporting events, and control
the progress of these events.     Tasks include -

(a)   participating in competitive sporting events;

(b)   conducting sports training to develop ability in and
      knowledge of the sport;

(c)   compiling rules concerning the conduct of sporting
      competitions, and controlling the progress of these events;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Athlete
  Boxer
  Coach, sports
  Official, sports
  Wrestler

6129  MARKET-ORIENTED ANIMAL PRODUCERS AND RELATED WORKERS NOT
ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED

 
     This unit group covers market-oriented animal producers and
related  workers not classified elsewhere in Minor group 612,
Market-oriented animal  producers and related workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  breeding, raising and tending wild mammals, game
birds and other birds,  snails, non-domesticated fur-giving
animals, snakes and other reptiles, as well  as various insects
and animals used for laboratory tests, for sale or delivery  on
a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations,
zoos and  circuses, or at markets. Here should also be classified
those who look after  or train animals in animal reserves,
stables, zoos, circuses, research  organisations, animal homes,
and similar institutions.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  buying or setting up necessary buildings, open or sheltered
     space, equipment, etc., and maintaining them;

(b)  determining kinds and amounts of animals to be raised;

(c)  purchasing animals, growing or purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(d)  breeding, raising, feeding and tending animals;

(e)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market

(f)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(g)  protecting animals, especially in animal reserves;

(h)  training animals for racing, circus performances and the
     like;

(i)  delivering or marketing products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, bird
  Breeder, game bird
  Breeder, laboratory animal/mice
  Breeder, lion
  Breeder, snail
  Farmer, fur/non-domesticated animals
  Keeper, animal reserve
  Keeper, zoo
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Game-warden - 5169

3475  ATHLETES, SPORTSPERSONS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Athletes, sportspersons and related associate professionals
participate  in competitive sporting events, conduct sports
training, compile rules  concerning sporting events, and control
the progress of these events.     Tasks include -

(a)   participating in competitive sporting events;

(b)   conducting sports training to develop ability in and
      knowledge of the sport;

(c)   compiling rules concerning the conduct of sporting
      competitions, and controlling the progress of these events;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Athlete
  Boxer
  Coach, sports
  Official, sports
  Wrestler

6129  MARKET-ORIENTED ANIMAL PRODUCERS AND RELATED WORKERS NOT
ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED

 
     This unit group covers market-oriented animal producers and
related  workers not classified elsewhere in Minor group 612,
Market-oriented animal  producers and related workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  breeding, raising and tending wild mammals, game
birds and other birds,  snails, non-domesticated fur-giving
animals, snakes and other reptiles, as well  as various insects
and animals used for laboratory tests, for sale or delivery  on
a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations,
zoos and  circuses, or at markets. Here should also be classified
those who look after  or train animals in animal reserves,
stables, zoos, circuses, research  organisations, animal homes,
and similar institutions.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  buying or setting up necessary buildings, open or sheltered
     space, equipment, etc., and maintaining them;

(b)  determining kinds and amounts of animals to be raised;

(c)  purchasing animals, growing or purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(d)  breeding, raising, feeding and tending animals;

(e)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market

(f)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(g)  protecting animals, especially in animal reserves;

(h)  training animals for racing, circus performances and the
     like;

(i)  delivering or marketing products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, bird
  Breeder, game bird
  Breeder, laboratory animal/mice
  Breeder, lion
  Breeder, snail
  Farmer, fur/non-domesticated animals
  Keeper, animal reserve
  Keeper, zoo
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Game-warden - 5169

3475  ATHLETES, SPORTSPERSONS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Athletes, sportspersons and related associate professionals
participate  in competitive sporting events, conduct sports
training, compile rules  concerning sporting events, and control
the progress of these events.     Tasks include -

(a)   participating in competitive sporting events;

(b)   conducting sports training to develop ability in and
      knowledge of the sport;

(c)   compiling rules concerning the conduct of sporting
      competitions, and controlling the progress of these events;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Athlete
  Boxer
  Coach, sports
  Official, sports
  Wrestler

6129  MARKET-ORIENTED ANIMAL PRODUCERS AND RELATED WORKERS NOT
ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED

 
     This unit group covers market-oriented animal producers and
related  workers not classified elsewhere in Minor group 612,
Market-oriented animal  producers and related workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  breeding, raising and tending wild mammals, game
birds and other birds,  snails, non-domesticated fur-giving
animals, snakes and other reptiles, as well  as various insects
and animals used for laboratory tests, for sale or delivery  on
a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations,
zoos and  circuses, or at markets. Here should also be classified
those who look after  or train animals in animal reserves,
stables, zoos, circuses, research  organisations, animal homes,
and similar institutions.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  buying or setting up necessary buildings, open or sheltered
     space, equipment, etc., and maintaining them;

(b)  determining kinds and amounts of animals to be raised;

(c)  purchasing animals, growing or purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(d)  breeding, raising, feeding and tending animals;

(e)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market

(f)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(g)  protecting animals, especially in animal reserves;

(h)  training animals for racing, circus performances and the
     like;

(i)  delivering or marketing products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, bird
  Breeder, game bird
  Breeder, laboratory animal/mice
  Breeder, lion
  Breeder, snail
  Farmer, fur/non-domesticated animals
  Keeper, animal reserve
  Keeper, zoo
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Game-warden - 5169

3475  ATHLETES, SPORTSPERSONS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Athletes, sportspersons and related associate professionals
participate  in competitive sporting events, conduct sports
training, compile rules  concerning sporting events, and control
the progress of these events.     Tasks include -

(a)   participating in competitive sporting events;

(b)   conducting sports training to develop ability in and
      knowledge of the sport;

(c)   compiling rules concerning the conduct of sporting
      competitions, and controlling the progress of these events;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Athlete
  Boxer
  Coach, sports
  Official, sports
  Wrestler

3474  CLOWNS, MAGICIANS, ACROBATS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS
 
     Clowns, magicians, acrobats and related associate
professionals entertain  audiences in circuses and other places
by performing a variety of acts.   
   
     Tasks include -

(a)   performing amusing antics and telling funny stories;

(b)   performing tricks of illusion and sleight of hand, and
      feats of hypnotism;

(c)   performing difficult and spectacular acrobatics, and
      gymnastic or juggling feats:

(d)   training and performing with animals;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Acrobat	
  Aerialist
  Clown
  Hypnotist
  Magician

3475  ATHLETES, SPORTSPERSONS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Athletes, sportspersons and related associate professionals
participate  in competitive sporting events, conduct sports
training, compile rules  concerning sporting events, and control
the progress of these events.     Tasks include -

(a)   participating in competitive sporting events;

(b)   conducting sports training to develop ability in and
      knowledge of the sport;

(c)   compiling rules concerning the conduct of sporting
      competitions, and controlling the progress of these events;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Athlete
  Boxer
  Coach, sports
  Official, sports
  Wrestler

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

7324  GLASS, CERAMICS AND RELATED DECORATIVE PAINTERS
 

     Glass, ceramics and related decorative painters decorate
articles made of  wood, metal, textiles, glass, ceramics and
other materials, and plan, lay out  and paint letters and designs
to make signs.

     Tasks include -

(a)  painting designs on articles with a brush, by spraying, or
     by transferring designs using stencils, transfers, rubber
     stamps and other means;

(b)  applying, for decorative purposes, paint, glaze, enamel,
     stain, varnish, lacquer and similar materials on articles
     by spraying or dipping;

(c)  coating mirror glass with silver solutions;

(d)  laying out and painting letters and designs to make signs;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Enameller, glass
  Painter, decorative
  Sign-writer
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, painting/ceramics - 8131
  Machine-operator, painting/glass - 8131
  Painter, building - 7141
  Painter, manufactured articles - 7142
  Painter, vehicle - 7142

7343  PRINTING ENGRAVERS AND ETCHERS
 

     Printing engravers and etchers engrave lithographic stones
and printing  plates, rollers, dies and blocks by various
processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting designs through film applied to surface of
     lithographic stones;

(b)  engraving steel and copper plates, rollers, dies or wood,
     rubber and linoleum blocks by hand;

(c)  engraving metal plates and rollers by machine;

(d)  transferring designs from lithographic stone to metal
     plates;

(e)  performing all or several tasks in preparing printing plates
     by photogravure process;

(f)  etching metal plates or rollers with acid and retouching;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Engraver, printing/lithographic stone
  Engraver, printing/metal plate
  Etcher, printing/metal plate
  Photo-engraver
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Designer, graphic - 3471

2444  PHILOLOGISTS, TRANSLATORS AND INTERPRETERS 
     Philologists, translators and interpreters study the origin,
development  and structure of languages, and translate or
interpret from one language into  another.

     Tasks include -

(a)   studying relationships between ancient parent languages and
      modern language groups, tracing the origin and evolution
of
      words, grammar and language forms, and presenting findings;

(b)   advising on or preparing language classification systems,
      grammars, dictionaries and similar materials;

(c)   translating from one language into another and ensuring
      that the correct meaning of the original is retained, that
      legal, technical or scientific works are correctly
      rendered, and that the phraseology and terminology of the
      spirit and style of literary works are conveyed as far as
      possible;

(d)   develop methods for the use of computers and other
      instruments to improve productivity and quality of
      translations;

(e)   interpreting from one language into another, in particular
      at conferences, meetings and similar occasions, and
      ensuring that the correct meaning and, as far as possible,
      the spirit of the original are transmitted;

(f)   preparing scholarly papers and reports;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Interpreter
  Lexicographer
   Philologist
  Translator

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Editor - 2451

6154  HUNTERS AND TRAPPERS
 
     Hunters and trappers catch and kill mammals, birds or
reptiles mainly for  meat, skin, feathers and other products, for
sale or delivery on a regular  basis to wholesale buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting traps to catch mammals, birds or reptiles;

(b)  killing trapped or free mammals, birds or reptiles with
     firearms or other weapons;

(c)  skinning and otherwise treating killed mammals, birds or
     reptiles to obtain desired products for sale or delivery.

(d)  delivering or selling trapped live mammals, birds or
     reptiles-,

(e)  repairing and maintaining equipment.

(f)  performing related tasks-,

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Hunter, seal
  Hunter, whale
  Trapper, fur
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/hunting
        - 1221
  General manager, hunting - 1311
  Labourer, hunting - 9213
  Labourer, trapping - 9213
  Managing director, enterprise/hunting - 1210

1319  GENERAL MANAGERS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED 
      This unit group covers general managers not elsewhere
classified in Minor  group 131, General managers.

      For instance, here should be classified those who head
small businesses  in the fields of education, health, or
recreational, cultural or sporting  activities and, on their own
behalf or on behalf of the proprietor, plan,  direct and
coordinate the activities of the business, with the assistance
of no more than one other manager and some non-managerial help.

      In such cases tasks would include

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;

(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 General manager, education
 
 General manager, health
 
 General manager, recreation
 
 General manager, travel agency
 
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Dean -1229 

 Department manager, production and operations/recreation
         - 1229

 Managing director, enterprise/education - 1210 

 Managing director, enterprise/health - 1210 

3117  MINING AND METALLURGICAL TECHNICIANS
 
     Mining and metallurgical technicians perform technical tasks
connected  with metallurgical research to develop improved
methods of extracting solid  minerals, oil and gas, as well as
with the design, construction, operation,  maintenance and repair
of mines and mine installations, systems for  transporting and
storing oil and natural gas, and plant for extracting metals 
from their ores and refining metal.

     Tasks include -

(a)   providing technical assistance connected with research and
      the development of processes to determine the properties
      of metal and new alloys, or of improved methods for the
      extraction of solid minerals, oil and natural gas, and for
      transporting and storing oil and natural gas, or testing
      prototypes;

(b)   providing technical assistance in geological and
      topographical surveys, and in the design and layout of oil,
      natural gas and mineral ore extraction and transport
      systems, and processing and refining plant for minerals and
      metals;

(c)   preparing detailed estimates of quantities and costs of
      materials and labour required for mineral, oil and natural
      gas exploration, extraction and transport projects and
      plant, and for processing and mineral refining plant
      according to the specifications given;

(d)   providing technical supervision of the construction,
      installation, operation, maintenance and repair of mineral
      ore, oil and natural gas exploration, extraction, transport
      and storage installations and mineral processing plant to
      ensure satisfactory performance and compliance with
      specifications and regulations;

(e)   applying technical knowledge of mining, of oil and natural
      gas extraction, transport and storage, and of metallurgical
      principles and practices in order to identity and solve
      problems arising in the course of their work;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Technician, engineering/mining
  Technician, metallurgy/extractive

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

Machine-operator, drilling/mine - 8111
  Miner - 7111
  Quarrier - 7111

5141  HAIRDRESSERS, BARBERS, BEAUTICIANS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Hairdressers, barbers, beauticians and related workers cut
and dress  hair, shave and trim beards, give beauty treatment,
apply cosmetics and  make-up and give other kinds of treatment
to individuals in order to improve their appearance.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting, washing, tinting and waving hair;

(b)  cutting and washing hair and shaving or trimming beards;

(c)  giving scalp treatment;

(d)  fitting wigs according to customers' requirements;

(e)  cleaning and applying creams, lotions and related products
     to face and parts of body;

(f)  giving facial and body massage;

(g)  applying make-up to clients of a beauty parlour;

(h)  applying make-up to actors and other performers;

(i)  cleaning, shaping and polishing finger and toe-nails and
     treating minor ailments of the human foot such as corns,
     calluses or deformed toe-nails;

(j)  attending to clients taking baths and administering
     elementary massage;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Attendant, bath
  Barber
  Beautician
  Chiropodist
  Hairdresser
  Manicurist

9331  HAND OR PEDAL VEHICLE DRIVERS
 

     Hand or pedal vehicle drivers propel cycles and similar
vehicles to  transport passengers or goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  loading or unloading goods, or assisting passengers in
     getting on or off a vehicle;

(b)  moving vehicle in the desired direction with due regard to
     other traffic and traffic regulations;

(c)  making minor repairs and keeping vehicle in good order;

(d)  collecting fares or charges;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Driver, pedal vehicle
  Driver, rickshaw
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Rider, motor cycle - 8321

7442  SHOE-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Shoe-makers and related workers make and repair standard or
special  footwear and, except for leather garments, hats and
gloves, make natural or  synthetic leather articles, such as
luggage, handbags, and belts, or  participate in the manufacture
of shoes and related goods.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making patterns to guide the cutting of shoe parts;

(b)  cutting out, preparing and fitting together shoe parts;

(c)  sewing shoe parts together;

(d)  making standard or orthopaedic footwear to individual
     requirements;

(e)  making other special types of footwear to order;

(f)  examining and finishing footwear;

(g)  repairing footwear;

(h)  making and repairing articles such as saddles and harnesses
     for animals, luggage, handbags, brief-cases, leather bags
     and other accessories;

(i)  cutting out, shaping and padding parts for making leather
     articles;

(j)  sewing and stitching leather parts by hand or machine;

(k)  performing related tasks;

(l)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cobbler
  Saddler
  Shoe-maker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, shoe production 8266

7434  FURRIERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Furriers and related workers make, alter, repair and restyle
garments and  other articles made of fur, or participate in the
manufacture of ready-to-wear  fur garments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  choosing, stretching and trimming dressed furs to conform
     to the chosen pattern outline of fur garments or other
     articles;

(b)  making coats, jackets and other fur garments and articles;

(c)  participation in the manufacture of ready-to-wear fur
     clothing;

(d)  reclaiming furs or skins from old coats, gluing fabric to
     interior of fur coats and trimming blocked fur garments;

(e)  altering, restyling and repairing fur garments and other fur
     articles;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Furrier
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, sewing/fur - 8263

7411  BUTCHERS, FISHMONGERS AND RELATED FOOD PREPARERS
 

     Butchers, fishmongers and related food preparers slaughter
animals, kill  fish, clean, cut and dress meat and fish and
prepare related food items or  preserve meat, fish and other
foods and food products by drying, salting or  smoking.

     Tasks include -

(a)  slaughtering animals or killing fish;

(b)  flaying and trimming carcasses;

(c)  cutting and dressing meat and fish for sale or further
     processing;

(d)  preparing ingredients and making sausages and similar
     products using simple chopping, mixing and shaping machines;

(e)  curing meat, fish and other foods;

(f)  operating smokehouses or ovens to smoke meat, fish and other
     foodstuffs;

(g)  cooking or in other ways preparing meat, fish and related
     food items for sale;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Butcher
  Fishmonger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine operator, meat processing 8271
  Machine operator, fish processing 8271

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

7122  BRICKLAYERS AND STONEMASONS
 

     Bricklayers and stonemasons erect and repair foundations,
walls and  structures of brick, stone and similar materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  laying stone, brick, hollow tile and similar building blocks
     to construct or repair walls, partitions, fireplaces and
     other structures such as smokestacks, furnaces, converters,
     kilns and ovens, piers and abutments;

(b)  laying walks, curbs and pavements of stone;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Bricklayer, construction
  Stonemason, construction

7432  WEAVERS, KNITTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

  
     Weavers, knitters and related workers spin and wind yarn by
hand, weave  materials on hand looms, make carpets by using a
knotting technique, knit  garment fabrics by hand or hand-
operated machine or perform similar  manufacturing tasks by hand
or hand-operated machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  spinning and winding yarn by hand;

(b)  drawing warp threads into loom by hand;

(c)  weaving plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpet or
     other fabrics on hand looms;

(d)  making carpets by using a knotting technique;

(e)  knitting garments and other articles on hand-operated
     machine or by hand;

(f)  crocheting or making braid by hand;

(g)  making nets by hand;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Knitter
  Spinner, thread and yarn
  Threader, loom
  Weaver, carpet
  Weaver cloth
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, knitting - 8262
  Machine-operator, weaving - 8262

3474  CLOWNS, MAGICIANS, ACROBATS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS
 
     Clowns, magicians, acrobats and related associate
professionals entertain  audiences in circuses and other places
by performing a variety of acts.   
   
     Tasks include -

(a)   performing amusing antics and telling funny stories;

(b)   performing tricks of illusion and sleight of hand, and
      feats of hypnotism;

(c)   performing difficult and spectacular acrobatics, and
      gymnastic or juggling feats:

(d)   training and performing with animals;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Acrobat	
  Aerialist
  Clown
  Hypnotist
  Magician

7312  MUSICAL-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND TUNERS
 

     Musical-instrument makers and tuners make, repair and tune
stringed, wind  or percussion instruments with hand or power
tools.

     Tasks include

(a)  making and repairing accordions, stringed and wind
     instruments;

(b)  building and repairing organs and making parts for such
     organs;

(c)  making instrumental parts of pianos and assembling and
     repairing such pianos;

(d)  tuning organs, pianos and other instruments;

(e)  making and repairing other musical instruments;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/musical (brass)
  Maker, instrument/musical (string)
  Maker, instrument/musical (woodwind)
  Tuner, musical instrument

7231  MOTOR VEHICLE MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Motor vehicle mechanics and fitters fit, install, maintain,
service and  repair engines and the mechanical and related
equipment of motor cycles,  passenger cars and delivery trucks
and other motor vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, examining, testing and servicing motor vehicle
     engines;

(b)  replacing engine components or complete engines;

(c)  fitting, examining, adjusting, dismantling, rebuilding and
     replacing defective parts of motor vehicles;

(d)  installing or adjusting motors and brakes, and adjusting
     steering or other parts of motor vehicles;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/motor-vehicle
  Mechanic, garage
  Mechanic, motor-vehicle
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/motor-vehicles - 8281

7312  MUSICAL-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND TUNERS
 

     Musical-instrument makers and tuners make, repair and tune
stringed, wind  or percussion instruments with hand or power
tools.

     Tasks include

(a)  making and repairing accordions, stringed and wind
     instruments;

(b)  building and repairing organs and making parts for such
     organs;

(c)  making instrumental parts of pianos and assembling and
     repairing such pianos;

(d)  tuning organs, pianos and other instruments;

(e)  making and repairing other musical instruments;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/musical (brass)
  Maker, instrument/musical (string)
  Maker, instrument/musical (woodwind)
  Tuner, musical instrument

7321  ABRASIVE WHEEL FORMERS, POTTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Abrasive wheel formers, potters and related workers make
pottery,  porcelain ware, bricks, tiles and abrasive wheels.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making articles of pottery and porcelain;

(b)  making clay or plaster-of-Paris moulds;

(c)  forming articles on potter's wheel with hands, or using
     interior or exterior moulding shapes and shaping tools;

(d)  forming articles by casting semi-liquid clay in plaster-of-
     Paris moulds;

(e)  forming bricks and tiles into special shapes by hand;

(f)  making articles by pressing plastic clay into moulds by
     hand;

(g)  operating screw-press or hydraulic press to make products
     from clay dust;

(h)  operating a machine which extrudes moist clay for further
     processing;

(i)  forming abrasive wheels by moulding and pressing abrasive
     mixture;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Caster, pottery and porcelain
  Modeller, pottery and porcelain
  Potter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln operator, brick and tile - 8131
  Kiln operator, pottery and porcelain 8131

7113  STONE SPLITTERS, CUTTERS AND CARVERS
 



     Stone splitters, cutters and carvers break quarried stone
slabs or  blocks, or by using hand or hand-powered tools cut,
shape and finish stone for  building, ornamental, monumental and
other purposes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  driving wedges into quarried stone to break it into slabs
     or blocks;

(b)  selecting and grading slabs and blocks of granite, marble,
     and other stone;

(c)  cutting, shaping and finishing building and monumental stone
     such as granite or marble by using hand or hand-powered
     tools;

(d)  making patterns and marking shapes on stone for subsequent
     sawing, planing, drilling and other dressing and cutting
     operations;

(e)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     blocks used for monuments or memorials;

(f)  setting stone in the erection of monuments and memorials;

(g)  cutting and carving characters, figures or designs on stone
     used for decorative facings on buildings-

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Carver, stone
  Cutter, stone
  Mason, monument
  Splitter, stone
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, carving/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, cutting/stone products - 8212
  Machine-operator, splitting/stone 8112
  Sculptor - 2452
  Stonemason, construction - 7122

7231  MOTOR VEHICLE MECHANICS AND FITTERS
 

     Motor vehicle mechanics and fitters fit, install, maintain,
service and  repair engines and the mechanical and related
equipment of motor cycles,  passenger cars and delivery trucks
and other motor vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  fitting, examining, testing and servicing motor vehicle
     engines;

(b)  replacing engine components or complete engines;

(c)  fitting, examining, adjusting, dismantling, rebuilding and
     replacing defective parts of motor vehicles;

(d)  installing or adjusting motors and brakes, and adjusting
     steering or other parts of motor vehicles;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Fitter, engine/motor-vehicle
  Mechanic, garage
  Mechanic, motor-vehicle
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, engine/motor-vehicles - 8281

7423  WOODWORKING-MACHINE SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Woodworking-machine setters and setter-operators set or set
and operate  woodworking machines, such as precision sawing,
shaping, planing, boring, turning and woodcarving machines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting and adjusting various kinds of machines for
     operation by others;

(b)  setting and operating one or several types of woodworking
     machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Sawyer, precision woodworking
  Setter, woodworking machine
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine
  Turner, wood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator woodworking - 8240
  Setter-operator, metalworking machine - 7223

7223    MACHINE-TOOL SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Machine-tool setters and setter-operators set for operators,
or set and  operate, various machine tools working to fine
tolerances.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting one or more types of machine tools for operators to
     produce metal articles in standardised series;

(b)  setting and operating a variety of machine tools;

(c)  setting and operating particular types of metalworking
     machines, such as lathe, milling, planing, boring, drilling,
     grinding or honing machines, including multipurpose
     numerically controlled metalworking machines;

(d)  performing similar tasks when machining plastics and other
     metal substitutes;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Setter, machine tool
  Setter-operator, drilling machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, grinding machine/metalworking
  Setter-operator, lathe/metalworking
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, drilling/metal - 8211
  Machine-operator, grinding/metal 8211
  Machine-operator, machine tool - 8211

7321  ABRASIVE WHEEL FORMERS, POTTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Abrasive wheel formers, potters and related workers make
pottery,  porcelain ware, bricks, tiles and abrasive wheels.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making articles of pottery and porcelain;

(b)  making clay or plaster-of-Paris moulds;

(c)  forming articles on potter's wheel with hands, or using
     interior or exterior moulding shapes and shaping tools;

(d)  forming articles by casting semi-liquid clay in plaster-of-
     Paris moulds;

(e)  forming bricks and tiles into special shapes by hand;

(f)  making articles by pressing plastic clay into moulds by
     hand;

(g)  operating screw-press or hydraulic press to make products
     from clay dust;

(h)  operating a machine which extrudes moist clay for further
     processing;

(i)  forming abrasive wheels by moulding and pressing abrasive
     mixture;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Caster, pottery and porcelain
  Modeller, pottery and porcelain
  Potter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Kiln operator, brick and tile - 8131
  Kiln operator, pottery and porcelain 8131

7423  WOODWORKING-MACHINE SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Woodworking-machine setters and setter-operators set or set
and operate  woodworking machines, such as precision sawing,
shaping, planing, boring, turning and woodcarving machines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting and adjusting various kinds of machines for
     operation by others;

(b)  setting and operating one or several types of woodworking
     machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Sawyer, precision woodworking
  Setter, woodworking machine
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine
  Turner, wood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator woodworking - 8240
  Setter-operator, metalworking machine - 7223

7343  PRINTING ENGRAVERS AND ETCHERS
 

     Printing engravers and etchers engrave lithographic stones
and printing  plates, rollers, dies and blocks by various
processes.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cutting designs through film applied to surface of
     lithographic stones;

(b)  engraving steel and copper plates, rollers, dies or wood,
     rubber and linoleum blocks by hand;

(c)  engraving metal plates and rollers by machine;

(d)  transferring designs from lithographic stone to metal
     plates;

(e)  performing all or several tasks in preparing printing plates
     by photogravure process;

(f)  etching metal plates or rollers with acid and retouching;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Engraver, printing/lithographic stone
  Engraver, printing/metal plate
  Etcher, printing/metal plate
  Photo-engraver
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Designer, graphic - 3471

7341  COMPOSITORS, TYPESETTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Compositors, typesetters and related workers set and arrange
printing  type by hand or machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting type by hand and printing copies with simple
     machines;

(b)  operating linotype, monotype and typecasting machines;

(c)  arranging set-up of type and spacing material and
     illustration blocks to make pages;

(d)  arranging pages in sequence for printing;

(e)  operating electronic key-boarding machines which enable
     characters to be converted into film, sensitised tape or
     paper for subsequent photo plate-making;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Compositor, printing
  Printer
  Typesetter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Press-operator, printing/cylinder 8251

4111  STENOGRAPHERS AND TYPISTS
 
     Stenographers and typists record oral or written matter in
shorthand and,  using type-, writers, produce documents on paper.
     Tasks include -

(a)  taking dictation and recording other matter in shorthand;
(b)  making transcripts in typewritten form;
(c)  performing limited clerical duties, such as filing or using
     photocopying machines;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Typist
  Typist, stenography

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Secretary, typing - 4115
  Verbatim reporter - 3431

7341  COMPOSITORS, TYPESETTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Compositors, typesetters and related workers set and arrange
printing  type by hand or machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting type by hand and printing copies with simple
     machines;

(b)  operating linotype, monotype and typecasting machines;

(c)  arranging set-up of type and spacing material and
     illustration blocks to make pages;

(d)  arranging pages in sequence for printing;

(e)  operating electronic key-boarding machines which enable
     characters to be converted into film, sensitised tape or
     paper for subsequent photo plate-making;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Compositor, printing
  Printer
  Typesetter
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Press-operator, printing/cylinder 8251

3475  ATHLETES, SPORTSPERSONS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Athletes, sportspersons and related associate professionals
participate  in competitive sporting events, conduct sports
training, compile rules  concerning sporting events, and control
the progress of these events.     Tasks include -

(a)   participating in competitive sporting events;

(b)   conducting sports training to develop ability in and
      knowledge of the sport;

(c)   compiling rules concerning the conduct of sporting
      competitions, and controlling the progress of these events;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Athlete
  Boxer
  Coach, sports
  Official, sports
  Wrestler

1120  SENIOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS 

      Senior government officials advise governments on policy
matters, oversee the interpretation and implementation of
government policies and legislation  by government departments
and agencies, represent their country abroad and act  on its
behalf, or carry out similar tasks in intergovernmental
organisations.

      Tasks include -

(a)   advising national, state, regional or local governments on
      policy matters;

(b)   advising on the preparation of government budgets, laws and
      regulations, including amendments;

(c)   overseeing the interpretation and implementation of
      government policies and legislation by government
      departments and agencies;

(d)   representing their country abroad;
         
(e)   performing similar tasks in intergovernmental
      organisations;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

Administrator, government
Administrator, intergovernmental organisation
Ambassador
Consul-general
Secretary, government/non legislative

5143  UNDERTAKERS AND EMBALMERS
 
     Undertakers and embalmers perform various tasks in the
disposal of dead  human bodies.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making arrangements for, and conducting, funerals,
     cremations and burials;

(b)  embalming human bodies to retard or arrest the process of
     decay;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Embalmer
  Undertaker

7216  UNDERWATER WORKERS
 

     Underwater workers work under water, dressed in scuba gear
or diving  suit, to inspect, install, repair, and remove
equipment and structures.

     Tasks include -

(a)  working under water to lay and repair bridges, piers and
     harbour-wall foundations;

(b)  inspecting for suspected damage and making minor repairs to
     ships' hulls and underwater installations;

(c)  reporting on condition of wrecked ships;

(d)  removing underwater obstructions;

(e)  drilling holes for underwater blasting;

(f)  performing various underwater tasks connected with salvage
     work or recovering dead bodies;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Frogman, salvage
  Underwater worker

3412  INSURANCE REPRESENTATIVES 
     Insurance representatives advise on and sell life, accident,
automobile,  liability, endowment, fire, marine and other types
of insurance to new and  established clients.     Tasks include -

(a)   obtaining information about customers' circumstances
      necessary to determine appropriate type of insurance and
      conditions;

(b)   negotiating with customers to determine type and degree of
      risk for which insurance is derived, extent of coverage and
      terms of payment-

(c)   negotiating and placing reinsurance contracts'.

(d)   advising on, negotiating terms for and placing insurance
      contracts for large or special types of projects,
      installations or risks

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Agent, insurance
   Insurance broker
   Underwriter, insurance

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Assessor, insurance - 3417
       Clerk, insurance - 3432

7437  UPHOLSTERERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Upholsterers and related workers upholster furniture, make
mattresses, or  make and install interior decorations of textile,
leather and similar  materials.

     Tasks include -

(a)  installing, arranging and securing springs, padding and
     covering material to furniture frames;

(b)  fitting and installing covers and cushioning for seats and
     other furnishings on vehicles, such as motor cars, railways
     coaches and aircraft;

(c)  making mattresses;

(d)  fitting and installing soft furnishings and interior
     decorations of textile, leather and similar materials;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, mattress
  Upholsterer, furniture
  Upholsterer, vehicle

9152  DOORKEEPERS, WATCHPERSONS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Doorkeepers, watchpersons and related workers undertake
doorkeeping  duties in apartment houses and other buildings,
attend parking places, watch  houses and other properties to
prevent illegal entry or theft and detect fire  or other hazards,
collect tickets, or perform ushering duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  doorkeeping in hotels and helping guests, especially on
     their arrival and departure, with luggage, keys, or
     information about directions, etc. ;

(b)  doorkeeping in apartment houses and other buildings,
     checking the right-of-entry of callers and giving them
     requested information;

(c)  watching houses and other properties to prevent illegal
     entry or theft, fire or other hazards;

(d)  ushering people into courtrooms, sporting places and similar
     
     establishments;

(e)  collecting tickets in cinemas, theatres, circuses and
     related places;

(f)  taking charge of cloakrooms or lavatories in public places;

(g)  attending parking places;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Attendant, cloakroom
  Collector, ticket
  Concierge, hotel desk
  Doorkeeper
  Guard, museum
  Porter, hotel
  Watchman
  Watchwoman
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Bodyguard - 5169
  Concierge, building - 9141
  Game-warden - 5169
  Patrolman, security - 5169
  Patrolwoman security - 5169
  Porter, luggage - 9151

3227  VETERINARY ASSISTANTS 
     Veterinary assistants carry out advisory, diagnostic,
preventive and  curative veterinary tasks, more limited in scope
and complexity than those  carried out by Veterinarians, and they
assist Veterinarians by preparing and  taking care of instruments
and other equipment, preparing materials and  getting animals
ready for examination and treatment.

     Tasks include -

(a)   advising communities and individuals on the treatment of
      animals and their diseases and injuries;

(b)   conducting examinations of animals to make diagnoses or
      refer more difficult cases to Veterinarians when needed;

(c)   treating ill or injured animals, especially for common
      diseases and disorders;

(d)   preparing and taking care of instruments and materials used
      in the treatment of animals;

(e)   carrying out technical tasks connected with artificial
      insemination of animals;

(f)   getting animals ready for examination or treatment and
      holding them during treatment, when necessary;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

 Assistant, veterinary
  Assistant, veterinary/artificial insemination
  Vaccinator, veterinary

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Aid, veterinary - 5139

5142  COMPANIONS AND VALETS
 
     Companions and valets provide companionship and attend to
various  personal needs of the employer.

     Tasks include -

(a)  providing companionship to employer by accompanying him/her
     to various places, reading, conversing and participating in
     activities such as sports;

(b)  assisting in entertaining visitors in employer's home;

(c)  keeping wardrobe and personal effects of the employer in
     good order;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Companion
  Valet
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Escort, social - 5149
  Partner, dancing - 5149

3417  APPRAISERS, VALUERS AND AUCTIONEERS
 
     Appraisers, valuers and auctioneers value property and
various goods and  assess losses covered by insurance policies,
or sell objects, properties and  goods by auction.     Tasks include -

(a)   determining the quality of value of raw materials, real
      estate, industria equipment, personal and household
      effects, works of art, gems and other objects offered for
      sale to be insured;

(b)   assessing the extent of damage or loss and liabilities of
      insurance companies and underwriters for losses covered by
      insurance policies;

(c)   selling by auction various kinds of property, cars,
      commodities, livestock, art, jewellery and other objects;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Appraiser
  Assessor, claims
  Assessor, insurance
  Auctioneer
  Inspector, claims
  Valuer

4111  STENOGRAPHERS AND TYPISTS
 
     Stenographers and typists record oral or written matter in
shorthand and,  using type-, writers, produce documents on paper.
     Tasks include -

(a)  taking dictation and recording other matter in shorthand;
(b)  making transcripts in typewritten form;
(c)  performing limited clerical duties, such as filing or using
     photocopying machines;
(d)  performing related tasks;
(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Typist
  Typist, stenography

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
   Secretary, typing - 4115
  Verbatim reporter - 3431

7142  VARNISHERS AND RELATED PAINTERS
 

     Varnishers and related painters paint vehicles such as cars,
buses or  trucks, or apply protective coats of enamel or varnish
on metal, wooden and  other manufactured articles, usually with
a hand-spraying device.

     Tasks include -

(a)  painting cars, buses, trucks and other vehicles, and
     applying varnish and other protective coatings;

(b)  applying paint as well as protective coatings of enamel or
     varnish on metal, wooden and other manufactured products,
     usually with a 
     hand-spraying device;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Painter, manufactured articles
  Painter, vehicle
  Varnisher, manufactured articles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, painting/metal 8223
  Machine-operator, painting/wood 8240
  Painter, building - 7141
  Painter, decorative - 7324

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

9111  STREET FOOD VENDORS
 

     Street food vendors prepare and sell, or sell previously
prepared, hot or  cold foods, vegetables, fruit, ice-cream and
various drinks, in streets and  public places such as stations,
cinemas, or theatres.

     Tasks include -

(a)  obtaining food and drinks for sale;

(b)  preparing, either beforehand or on the spot, food and drinks
     for sale;

(c)  loading and unloading push-cart or truck, to bring food and
     drinks to the desired place in the street, or to public
     places such as stations or cinemas;

(d)  displaying food and drinks;

(e)  receiving payment on the spot;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Vendor, refreshments/cinema
  Vendor, refreshments/theatre
  Vendor, street/food
Some related occupations classified  elsewhere:
  Salesperson, market - 5230
  Salesperson, street stall - 5230
  Vendor, street/non-food products - 9112

9112  STREET VENDORS, NON-FOOD PRODUCTS
 

     Street vendors, non-food products sell various goods in
streets and  public places such as stations, cinemas or theatres.

     Tasks include -

(a)  buying or making various items for sale

(b)  loading and unloading push-cart, bicycle, truck or other
     vehicle, to transport goods to the streets or public places
     such as stations or cinemas;

(c)  displaying goods ;

(d)  approaching customer and selling newspapers or similar
     goods;

(e)  receiving payment on the spot;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Hawker
  Pedlar
  Vendor, theatre programme
  Vendor, street/non-food products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Salesperson, market - 5230
  Salesperson, street stall - 5230
  Vendor, street/food - 9111

9111  STREET FOOD VENDORS
 

     Street food vendors prepare and sell, or sell previously
prepared, hot or  cold foods, vegetables, fruit, ice-cream and
various drinks, in streets and  public places such as stations,
cinemas, or theatres.

     Tasks include -

(a)  obtaining food and drinks for sale;

(b)  preparing, either beforehand or on the spot, food and drinks
     for sale;

(c)  loading and unloading push-cart or truck, to bring food and
     drinks to the desired place in the street, or to public
     places such as stations or cinemas;

(d)  displaying food and drinks;

(e)  receiving payment on the spot;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Vendor, refreshments/cinema
  Vendor, refreshments/theatre
  Vendor, street/food
Some related occupations classified  elsewhere:
  Salesperson, market - 5230
  Salesperson, street stall - 5230
  Vendor, street/non-food products - 9112

9112  STREET VENDORS, NON-FOOD PRODUCTS
 

     Street vendors, non-food products sell various goods in
streets and  public places such as stations, cinemas or theatres.

     Tasks include -

(a)  buying or making various items for sale

(b)  loading and unloading push-cart, bicycle, truck or other
     vehicle, to transport goods to the streets or public places
     such as stations or cinemas;

(c)  displaying goods ;

(d)  approaching customer and selling newspapers or similar
     goods;

(e)  receiving payment on the spot;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Hawker
  Pedlar
  Vendor, theatre programme
  Vendor, street/non-food products
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Salesperson, market - 5230
  Salesperson, street stall - 5230
  Vendor, street/food - 9111

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

3474  CLOWNS, MAGICIANS, ACROBATS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS
 
     Clowns, magicians, acrobats and related associate
professionals entertain  audiences in circuses and other places
by performing a variety of acts.   
   
     Tasks include -

(a)   performing amusing antics and telling funny stories;

(b)   performing tricks of illusion and sleight of hand, and
      feats of hypnotism;

(c)   performing difficult and spectacular acrobatics, and
      gymnastic or juggling feats:

(d)   training and performing with animals;

(e)   performing related tasks;

(f)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Acrobat	
  Aerialist
  Clown
  Hypnotist
  Magician

3431  ADMINISTRATIVE SECRETARIES AND RELATED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSIONALS
 
     Administrative secretaries and related associate
professionals implement  and support the communication,
documentation and internal managerial  co-ordination activities
of an organisational unit to assist the head of unit  and other
members of staff, and make verbatim reports of proceedings.     Tasks include -

(a)   drafting administrative correspondence and minutes;

(b)   obtaining, proposing and monitoring deadlines and follow-up
      dates;

(c)   screening requests for meetings, scheduling and organising
      meetings, scheduling and organising meetings and travel
      arrangements for the head of unit and other members of
      staff:

(d)   assisting in the preparation of budgets, monitoring of
      expenditures, drafting of contracts and purchasing or
      acquisition orders;

(e)   assisting the head of unit and other staff with inquiries
      of an administrative or organisational nature;

(f)   assisting the head of unit in organising and hosting
      hospitality functions for outside visitors or members of
      staff;

(g)   making verbatim reports of proceedings in legislative
      assemblies, courts of law or other places in shorthand or
      by other means;

(h)   writing and answering business or technical letters and
      other similar correspondence;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.
  
Examples of the occupations classified here:   Administrative secretary
  Assistant, correspondence
  Verbatim reporter
  
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Secretary - 4115

9141  BUILDING CARETAKERS
 

     Building caretakers take care of apartment houses, hotels,
offices,  churches and other buildings and maintain them in a
clean and orderly  condition.

     Tasks include -

(a)  participating in cleaning, simple repairs and maintenance
     of building interiors;

(b)  tending furnaces and boilers to ensure provision of heat and
     hot water;

(c)  regulating conduct of tenants and visitors in such matters
     as noise abatement or misuse of property;

(d)  providing small services to absent tenants such as accepting
     deliveries on their behalf or providing requested
     information to callers;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Caretaker, building/cleaning
  Concierge, building
  Janitor
  Sexton

2223  VETERINARIANS 
     Veterinarians conduct research, improve or develop concepts,
theories and  operational methods, and apply medical knowledge
in the veterinary field.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods;

(b)   conducting examinations and diagnosing diseases or injuries
      of animals;

(c)   administering surgical or medical veterinary treatment;

(d)   testing dairy and other herds and inoculating animals
      against diseases;

(e)   advising on care and breeding of animals;

(f)   inspecting quality, purity and safety of food made wholly
      or partly from raw materials of animal origin intended for
      human consumption;

(g)   assisting in epidemiological, radiological and other
      surveillance of animal health;

(h)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Veterinarian
  Veterinarian, epidemiology

2460  RELIGIOUS PROFESSIONALS 
      
     Religious professionals function as perpetrators of the
sacred  traditions, practices and beliefs and celebrate or
administer at the rituals  of initiation, preside over ritual
reenactments of creative, redemptive or  salvatory events, and
offer sacrifices to the gods or to one God.

     Tasks include -

(a)   perpetuating sacred traditions, practices and beliefs;

(d)   conducting religious services, rites and ceremonies;

(c)   undertaking various administrative and social duties,
      including a ending committees and meetings of religious
      organisations;

(d)   providing spiritual and moral guidance in accordance with
      the religion professed;

(e)   propagating religious doctrines in own country or abroad;

(f)   preparing religious sermons and preachings;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bonze
  Imam
  Minister, religion
  Monk, professional
  Nun, professional
  Poojari
  Priest
  Rabbi

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Monk, associate professional - 3480
  Nun, associate professional - 3480
  Preacher, lay - 3480

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

2453  COMPOSERS, MUSICIANS AND SINGERS 
     Composers, musicians and singers compose and adapt musical
works and  conduct or participate in performances of them.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing musical compositions;

(b)   adapting or arranging music for particular instrumental
      groups, instruments or occasions;

(c)   conducting instrumental or vocal groups;

(d)   playing one or more musical instruments as a soloist or as
      a member of an orchestra;

(e)   singing as soloists or members of vocal groups;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Composer, music
  Conductor, orchestra
  Conductor, vocal group
  Instrumentalist
  Orchestrator
  Singer, opera

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Band leader - 3473
  Musician, street - 3473
  Singer, street - 3473

7312  MUSICAL-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND TUNERS
 

     Musical-instrument makers and tuners make, repair and tune
stringed, wind  or percussion instruments with hand or power
tools.

     Tasks include

(a)  making and repairing accordions, stringed and wind
     instruments;

(b)  building and repairing organs and making parts for such
     organs;

(c)  making instrumental parts of pianos and assembling and
     repairing such pianos;

(d)  tuning organs, pianos and other instruments;

(e)  making and repairing other musical instruments;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/musical (brass)
  Maker, instrument/musical (string)
  Maker, instrument/musical (woodwind)
  Tuner, musical instrument

2114  GEOLOGISTS AND GEOPHYSICISTS 
     Geologists and geophysicists conduct research, improve or
develop  concepts, theories and operational methods, or apply
scientific knowledge  relating to geology and geophysics in such
fields as oil, gas and mineral  exploitation, water conservation,
civil engineering, telecommunications and  navigation.

     Tasks include:

(a)   conducting research and improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods related to geology and
      geophysics;

(b)   studying composition and structure of the earth's crust,
      examining rocks, minerals, fossil remains, etc., to
      determine processes affecting the development of the earth,
      trace evolution of past life and establish nature and
      chronology of geological formations;

(c)   interpreting research data and preparing geological
      reports, maps, charts and diagrams;

(d)   applying results of research to assess development
      potential of mineral, gas and oil deposits and underground
      water resources;

(e)   applying geological knowledge to problems encountered in
      civil engineering projects such as the construction of
      dams, bridges, tunnels and large buildings;

(f)   investigating and measuring seismic, gravitational,
      electrical, thermal and magnetic forces affecting the
      earth;

(g)   investigating and measuring optical and acoustic phenomena
      in the atmosphere;

(h)   estimating weight, size and mass of the earth and
      composition and structure of its interior, and studying the
      nature and activity of volcanoes, glaciers and earthquakes;

(i)   charting the earth's magnetic field and applying this and
      other collected data for purposes of broadcasting and
      navigation;

(j)   studying and measuring physical properties of seas and the
      atmosphere and their inter-relationship, such as the
      exchange of thermal energy;

(k)   locating and determining the nature and extent of oil, gas
      and mineral deposits and of ground-water resources, using
      seismological, gravimetric, magnetic, electrical or
      radiometric methods;

(l)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(m)   performing related tasks;

(n)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Geologist
  Geophysicist

5123  WAITERS, WAITRESSES AND BARTENDERS

 
     Waiters, waitresses and bartenders serve food and beverages
in  commercially-operated dining and drinking places, clubs,
institutions and  canteens, on board ships and on passenger
trains.

     Tasks include -

(a)  serving food and beverages;

(b)  advising on the choice of wines and serving them;

(c)  serving alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks at a bar;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Bartender
  Waiter
  Waiter, head
  Waitress
  Waitress, wine

7141  PAINTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Painters and related workers prepare surfaces of buildings
and other  structures for painting, apply protective and
decorative coats of paint or  similar materials or cover interior
walls and ceilings of buildings with  wallpaper, silk or other
fabrics.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cleaning and preparing walls and other surfaces of buildings
     for painting or wallpapering;

(b)  applying or spraying paint, varnish, shellac and similar
     materials to surfaces, fixtures and fittings of buildings;

(c)  measuring and mounting wallpaper, silk or other fabrics on
     interior walls and ceilings of buildings and ships;

(d)  applying or spraying paint, red lead, bituminous emulsion
     and similar materials to ships' hulls and metal structures,
     steel frameworks of buildings, bridges and metal
     constructions;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers in this group.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Painter, building
  Paperhanger

5169  PROTECTIVE SERVICES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers protective services workers not
classified  elsewhere in Minor group 516, Protective services
workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who patrol
buildings and  areas to prevent illegal entry, theft, violence
and other unlawful acts, and  who, if necessary, use force to
prevent such acts and apprehend perpetrators,  as well as those
who act as bodyguards, life-guards or game-wardens.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  patrolling buildings and areas to prevent theft, violence,
     infractions of rules or other irregularities;

(b)  if necessary, exercising the right to use force and to 
     apprehend.perpetrators;

(c)  performing the duties of a bodyguard;

(d)  patrolling beaches and swimming pools to prevent accidents
     and to rescue bathers from drowning;

(e)  patrolling natural reserves, game parks, forest areas and
     enclosures to prevent theft and killing of game;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Bodyguard
  Game-warden
  Life-guard
  Patrolman, security
  Patrolwoman, security
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Doorkeeper - 91 52
  Guard, museum - 9152
  Watchman - 9152
  Watchwoman - 9152

5121  HOUSEKEEPERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Housekeepers and related workers organise, supervise and
carry out  housekeeping functions in hotels, clubs, boarding
schools and other  enterprises and institutions and in private
households.

     Tasks include -

(a)  engaging, training, discharging organising and supervising
     workers employed as domestic staff;

(b)  purchasing or controlling the purchase of supplies;

(c)  controlling storage and issue of supplies;

(d)  supervising general welfare and conduct of individuals in
     institutions;

(e)  assisting in cases of minor injury or illness by performing
     tasks such as taking temperature, giving medicine, putting
     on bandages;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Housekeeper
  Matron, housekeeping
  Steward, house

3460  SOCIAL WORK ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
      Social work associate professionals provide guidance to
clients in social and related matters to enable them to find and
use resources to overcome difficulties and achieve particular
goals.      Tasks include:

(a)   helping individuals and families with personal and social
      problems;

(b)   collecting information relevant to clients' needs and
      advising them on their rights and obligations;

(c)   analysing the client's situation and presenting alternative
      approaches to resolving problems;

(d)   compiling case records or reports for court and other legal
      proceedings;

(e)   planning, evaluating, improving and developing welfare
      services;

(f)   working to prevent development of delinquency or to achieve
      rehabilitation of delinquents by organising and supervising
      social, recreational and educational activities in youth
      clubs, community centres and similar organisations, or by
      other means;

(g)   helping physically or mentally handicapped persons to
      obtain adequate treatment and improve their ability to
      function in society;

(h)   planning, organising or providing home-help services;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Social worker, associate professional
  Social worker, associate professional/enterprise
  Welfare worker, associate professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Social worker, professional - 2446
  Social worker, professional/enterprise - 2446
  Welfare worker, professional -2446

2446  SOCIAL WORK PROFESSIONALS 
     Social work professionals provide guidance to clients in
social and  related matters to enable them to find and use
resources to overcome  difficulties and achieve particular goals.

     Tasks include

(a)   helping individuals and families with personal and social
      problems;

(b)   collecting information relevant to clients' needs and
      advising them on their rights and obligations;

(c)   analysing the client's situation and presenting alternative
      approaches to resolving problems;

(d)   compiling case records or reports for courts and other
      legal proceedings;

(e)   planning, evaluating, improving and developing welfare
      services;

(f)   working to prevent development of delinquency or to achieve
      rehabilitation of delinquents by organising and supervising
      social, recreational and educational activities in youth
      clubs, community centres and similar organisations, or by
      other means;

(g)   helping physically or mentally handicapped persons to
      obtain adequate treatment and improve their ability to
      function in society;

(h)   planning, organising or providing home-help services;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Social worker, professional
  Social worker, professional/enterprise
  Welfare worker, professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Social worker, associate professional - 3460
  Social worker, associate professional/enterprise - 3460
  Welfare worker, associate professional - 3460

5121  HOUSEKEEPERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 
     Housekeepers and related workers organise, supervise and
carry out  housekeeping functions in hotels, clubs, boarding
schools and other  enterprises and institutions and in private
households.

     Tasks include -

(a)  engaging, training, discharging organising and supervising
     workers employed as domestic staff;

(b)  purchasing or controlling the purchase of supplies;

(c)  controlling storage and issue of supplies;

(d)  supervising general welfare and conduct of individuals in
     institutions;

(e)  assisting in cases of minor injury or illness by performing
     tasks such as taking temperature, giving medicine, putting
     on bandages;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Housekeeper
  Matron, housekeeping
  Steward, house

5163  PRISON GUARDS
 
     Prison guards watch over and maintain discipline among
inmates of  prisons, reformatories or penitentiaries.


Tasks include -

(a)  searching arriving prisoners, putting their valuables in
     safekeeping, escorting prisoners to cells and locking them
     in;

(b)  making periodic inspection tours of cells;

(c)  supervising prisoners at work, meals, or during walks and
     patrolling prison areas to prevent escape;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Guard, prison

3460  SOCIAL WORK ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
      Social work associate professionals provide guidance to
clients in social and related matters to enable them to find and
use resources to overcome difficulties and achieve particular
goals.      Tasks include:

(a)   helping individuals and families with personal and social
      problems;

(b)   collecting information relevant to clients' needs and
      advising them on their rights and obligations;

(c)   analysing the client's situation and presenting alternative
      approaches to resolving problems;

(d)   compiling case records or reports for court and other legal
      proceedings;

(e)   planning, evaluating, improving and developing welfare
      services;

(f)   working to prevent development of delinquency or to achieve
      rehabilitation of delinquents by organising and supervising
      social, recreational and educational activities in youth
      clubs, community centres and similar organisations, or by
      other means;

(g)   helping physically or mentally handicapped persons to
      obtain adequate treatment and improve their ability to
      function in society;

(h)   planning, organising or providing home-help services;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Social worker, associate professional
  Social worker, associate professional/enterprise
  Welfare worker, associate professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Social worker, professional - 2446
  Social worker, professional/enterprise - 2446
  Welfare worker, professional -2446

2446  SOCIAL WORK PROFESSIONALS 
     Social work professionals provide guidance to clients in
social and  related matters to enable them to find and use
resources to overcome  difficulties and achieve particular goals.

     Tasks include

(a)   helping individuals and families with personal and social
      problems;

(b)   collecting information relevant to clients' needs and
      advising them on their rights and obligations;

(c)   analysing the client's situation and presenting alternative
      approaches to resolving problems;

(d)   compiling case records or reports for courts and other
      legal proceedings;

(e)   planning, evaluating, improving and developing welfare
      services;

(f)   working to prevent development of delinquency or to achieve
      rehabilitation of delinquents by organising and supervising
      social, recreational and educational activities in youth
      clubs, community centres and similar organisations, or by
      other means;

(g)   helping physically or mentally handicapped persons to
      obtain adequate treatment and improve their ability to
      function in society;

(h)   planning, organising or providing home-help services;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Social worker, professional
  Social worker, professional/enterprise
  Welfare worker, professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Social worker, associate professional - 3460
  Social worker, associate professional/enterprise - 3460
  Welfare worker, associate professional - 3460

5169  PROTECTIVE SERVICES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED
 
     This unit group covers protective services workers not
classified  elsewhere in Minor group 516, Protective services
workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who patrol
buildings and  areas to prevent illegal entry, theft, violence
and other unlawful acts, and  who, if necessary, use force to
prevent such acts and apprehend perpetrators,  as well as those
who act as bodyguards, life-guards or game-wardens.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  patrolling buildings and areas to prevent theft, violence,
     infractions of rules or other irregularities;

(b)  if necessary, exercising the right to use force and to 
     apprehend.perpetrators;

(c)  performing the duties of a bodyguard;

(d)  patrolling beaches and swimming pools to prevent accidents
     and to rescue bathers from drowning;

(e)  patrolling natural reserves, game parks, forest areas and
     enclosures to prevent theft and killing of game;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Bodyguard
  Game-warden
  Life-guard
  Patrolman, security
  Patrolwoman, security
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Doorkeeper - 91 52
  Guard, museum - 9152
  Watchman - 9152
  Watchwoman - 9152

5163  PRISON GUARDS
 
     Prison guards watch over and maintain discipline among
inmates of  prisons, reformatories or penitentiaries.


Tasks include -

(a)  searching arriving prisoners, putting their valuables in
     safekeeping, escorting prisoners to cells and locking them
     in;

(b)  making periodic inspection tours of cells;

(c)  supervising prisoners at work, meals, or during walks and
     patrolling prison areas to prevent escape;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Guard, prison

7433  TAILORS, DRESSMAKERS AND HATTERS
 

     Tailors, dressmakers and hatters make suits, dresses and
other garments  from textile fabrics, leather or any other
material except fur, carry out  alterations and repairs, or make
hats, or participate in the manufacture of  ready-to-wear
garments.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making overcoats, suits, skirts, shirts, blouses, lingerie,
     corsetry and similar garments often to clients' individual
     requirements;

(b)  participating in the manufacture of ready-to-wear clothing;

(c)  making hats;

(d)  altering, restyling and repairing garments;

(e)  making and caring for costumes used in theatrical,
     television and motion picture productions;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Dressmaker
  Milliner
  Tailor
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, sewing - 8263

9322  HAND PACKERS AND OTHER MANUFACTURING LABOURERS
 

     Hand packers and other manufacturing labourers pack
materials or products  by hand and perform a variety of simple
routine tasks connected with  manufacturing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  packing materials or products by hand in boxes, bags,
     cartons, crates, kegs and other containers for shipment or
     storage;

(b)  moving, lifting, carrying, loading, unloading or washing raw
     materials or products, in various manufacturing  industries
     or repair and maintenance establishments;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, manufacturing
  Packer, hand
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, labelling - 8290
  Machine-operator, packing - 8290

9132  HELPERS AND CLEANERS IN OFFICES, HOTELS AND OTHER ESTABLISHMENTS
 

     Helpers and cleaners in offices, hotels and other
establishments perform  various cleaning tasks in order to keep
clean and tidy the interiors and  fixtures of hotels, offices and
other establishments, as well as of aircraft,  trains, buses and
similar vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  sweeping or vacuum-cleaning, washing and polishing floors,
     furniture and other fixtures in buildings, coaches, buses,
     trams, trains and aircraft;

(b)  making beds, cleaning bathrooms, supplying towels, soap and
     related items;

(c)  cleaning kitchens and generally helping with kitchen work,
     including dishwashing ;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other worker's.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cleaner,  aircraft
  Cleaner, hotel
  Cleaner, office
  Washer, hand/dishes
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Caretaker, building - 9141
  Cleaner, domestic - 9131
  Housekeeper - 5121
  Sweeper, street - 9162

9322  HAND PACKERS AND OTHER MANUFACTURING LABOURERS
 

     Hand packers and other manufacturing labourers pack
materials or products  by hand and perform a variety of simple
routine tasks connected with  manufacturing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  packing materials or products by hand in boxes, bags,
     cartons, crates, kegs and other containers for shipment or
     storage;

(b)  moving, lifting, carrying, loading, unloading or washing raw
     materials or products, in various manufacturing  industries
     or repair and maintenance establishments;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, manufacturing
  Packer, hand
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, labelling - 8290
  Machine-operator, packing - 8290

9133  HAND-LAUNDERERS AND PRESSERS
 

     Hand-launderers and pressers launder, press or dry-clean
linen and other  textiles by hand.

     Tasks include -

(a)  laundering and pressing linen, clothing, fabrics and similar
     articles by hand in a laundry or other establishment;

(b)  cleaning, by hand and with chemical solutions, clothing,
     fabrics, leather goods and similar articles, in a dry-
     cleaning or other establishment;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Dry-cleaner, hand
  Launderer, hand
  Presser, hand
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, dry-cleaning - 8264
  Machine-operator, pressing/laundry 8264
  Machine-operator, washing/laundry 8264

9322  HAND PACKERS AND OTHER MANUFACTURING LABOURERS
 

     Hand packers and other manufacturing labourers pack
materials or products  by hand and perform a variety of simple
routine tasks connected with  manufacturing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  packing materials or products by hand in boxes, bags,
     cartons, crates, kegs and other containers for shipment or
     storage;

(b)  moving, lifting, carrying, loading, unloading or washing raw
     materials or products, in various manufacturing  industries
     or repair and maintenance establishments;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, manufacturing
  Packer, hand
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, labelling - 8290
  Machine-operator, packing - 8290

9120  SHOE CLEANING AND OTHER STREET SERVICES ELEMENTARY OCCUPATIONS
 

     Shoe cleaning and other street services elementary
occupations usually  include cleaning shoes, washing car windows,
running errands and providing  other on-the-spot street services.
(a)  obtaining the materials necessary to perform cleaning
     services;

(b)  cleaning and polishing shoes;

(c)  cleaning and polishing car windows;

(d)  running errands;

(e)  receiving immediate payment;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Errand boy
  Shoe-polisher
  Washer, hand/street (car windows)

9142  VEHICLE, WINDOW AND RELATED CLEANERS
 

     Vehicle, window and related cleaners clean windows,
showcases or other  glass surfaces of buildings, or vehicles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cleaning, washing and polishing cars and other vehicles, by
     hand or machine;

(b)  washing  windows or other glass surfaces  with  water  or 
     various solutions, drying and polishing them;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cleaner, window
  Washer, hand/vehicle

9322  HAND PACKERS AND OTHER MANUFACTURING LABOURERS
 

     Hand packers and other manufacturing labourers pack
materials or products  by hand and perform a variety of simple
routine tasks connected with  manufacturing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  packing materials or products by hand in boxes, bags,
     cartons, crates, kegs and other containers for shipment or
     storage;

(b)  moving, lifting, carrying, loading, unloading or washing raw
     materials or products, in various manufacturing  industries
     or repair and maintenance establishments;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, manufacturing
  Packer, hand
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, labelling - 8290
  Machine-operator, packing - 8290

7311  PRECISION-INSTRUMENT MAKERS AND REPAIRERS

 

     Precision-instrument makers and repairers make and repair
mechanical  watches, clocks, nautical, meteorological, optical,
surgical, dental,  orthopaedic and other precision instruments
and equipment.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making, adjusting and repairing mechanical watches and
     clocks;

(b)  making, adjusting and repairing nautical and meteorological
     instruments and equipment;

(c)  making, adjusting and repairing optical instruments;

(d)  making, adjusting and repairing surgical instruments and
     other medical equipment;

(e)  making and repairing medical, orthopaedic and dental
     appliances and prostheses;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, instrument/meteorological
  Maker, instrument/surgical
  Maker, orthopaedic appliance
  Maker, watch
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, watch - 8283
  Machine-operator, machine-tool - 8211

9152  DOORKEEPERS, WATCHPERSONS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Doorkeepers, watchpersons and related workers undertake
doorkeeping  duties in apartment houses and other buildings,
attend parking places, watch  houses and other properties to
prevent illegal entry or theft and detect fire  or other hazards,
collect tickets, or perform ushering duties.

     Tasks include -

(a)  doorkeeping in hotels and helping guests, especially on
     their arrival and departure, with luggage, keys, or
     information about directions, etc. ;

(b)  doorkeeping in apartment houses and other buildings,
     checking the right-of-entry of callers and giving them
     requested information;

(c)  watching houses and other properties to prevent illegal
     entry or theft, fire or other hazards;

(d)  ushering people into courtrooms, sporting places and similar
     
     establishments;

(e)  collecting tickets in cinemas, theatres, circuses and
     related places;

(f)  taking charge of cloakrooms or lavatories in public places;

(g)  attending parking places;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Attendant, cloakroom
  Collector, ticket
  Concierge, hotel desk
  Doorkeeper
  Guard, museum
  Porter, hotel
  Watchman
  Watchwoman
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Bodyguard - 5169
  Concierge, building - 9141
  Game-warden - 5169
  Patrolman, security - 5169
  Patrolwoman security - 5169
  Porter, luggage - 9151

8340  SHIPS' DECK CREWS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Ship's deck crews and related workers carry out deck duties
on board ship  and similar duties on board other water-borne
craft.

     Tasks include -

(a)  standing look-out watches at sea and when entering or
     leaving harbour or other narrow waters'.
(b)  steering ship according to instructions;

(c)  handling mooring lines on board;

(d)  maintaining and, in some cases, operating ship's equipment,
     cargo gear, rigging, life-saving and fire-fighting
     appliances;

(e)  performing deck and hull cleaning, scraping, painting and
     other maintenance duties as required;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Boatswain
  Sailor
  Seaman, able
  Seawoman, able

7323  GLASS ENGRAVERS AND ETCHERS
 

     Glass engravers and etchers engrave and etch designs on
glass articles.

     Tasks include -

(a)  engraving monograms and ornamental designs on glassware;

(b)  etching decorative designs, calibration markings and other
     figures on glass articles;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cutter, crystal glass
  Engraver, glass
  Etcher, glass

7424  BASKETRY WEAVERS, BRUSH MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Basketry weavers, brush makers and related workers make
wicker furniture,  brushes and brooms and weave baskets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making wicker furniture from peeled and softened rattan,
     reeds, rushes, willow branches and similar materials;

(b)  making various kinds of baskets by interlacing osier,
     rattan, reeds, rushes or similar materials;

(c)  selecting and preparing brush materials, such as bristles,
     nylon, fibres and wire, and setting them in brush base;

(d)  selecting and preparing materials, such as broom corn, bass
     and whisker fibre, and fastening them to broom handles;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, basket
  Maker, brush
  Maker, furniture/wicker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, wooden articles 7331
  Machine-operator, woodworking - 8240

7432  WEAVERS, KNITTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

  
     Weavers, knitters and related workers spin and wind yarn by
hand, weave  materials on hand looms, make carpets by using a
knotting technique, knit  garment fabrics by hand or hand-
operated machine or perform similar  manufacturing tasks by hand
or hand-operated machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  spinning and winding yarn by hand;

(b)  drawing warp threads into loom by hand;

(c)  weaving plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpet or
     other fabrics on hand looms;

(d)  making carpets by using a knotting technique;

(e)  knitting garments and other articles on hand-operated
     machine or by hand;

(f)  crocheting or making braid by hand;

(g)  making nets by hand;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Knitter
  Spinner, thread and yarn
  Threader, loom
  Weaver, carpet
  Weaver cloth
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, knitting - 8262
  Machine-operator, weaving - 8262

7424  BASKETRY WEAVERS, BRUSH MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Basketry weavers, brush makers and related workers make
wicker furniture,  brushes and brooms and weave baskets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making wicker furniture from peeled and softened rattan,
     reeds, rushes, willow branches and similar materials;

(b)  making various kinds of baskets by interlacing osier,
     rattan, reeds, rushes or similar materials;

(c)  selecting and preparing brush materials, such as bristles,
     nylon, fibres and wire, and setting them in brush base;

(d)  selecting and preparing materials, such as broom corn, bass
     and whisker fibre, and fastening them to broom handles;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Maker, basket
  Maker, brush
  Maker, furniture/wicker
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, wooden articles 7331
  Machine-operator, woodworking - 8240

7432  WEAVERS, KNITTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

  
     Weavers, knitters and related workers spin and wind yarn by
hand, weave  materials on hand looms, make carpets by using a
knotting technique, knit  garment fabrics by hand or hand-
operated machine or perform similar  manufacturing tasks by hand
or hand-operated machine.

     Tasks include -

(a)  spinning and winding yarn by hand;

(b)  drawing warp threads into loom by hand;

(c)  weaving plain or figured cloth, tapestry, lace, carpet or
     other fabrics on hand looms;

(d)  making carpets by using a knotting technique;

(e)  knitting garments and other articles on hand-operated
     machine or by hand;

(f)  crocheting or making braid by hand;

(g)  making nets by hand;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Knitter
  Spinner, thread and yarn
  Threader, loom
  Weaver, carpet
  Weaver cloth
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Handicraft worker, textiles - 7332
  Machine-operator, knitting - 8262
  Machine-operator, weaving - 8262

7212    WELDERS AND FLAMECUTTERS
 

     Welders and flame cutters weld and cut metal parts using gas
flame, or an  electric arc and other sources of heat to melt and
cut, or to melt and fuse  metal.

     Tasks include -

(a)  welding metal parts using gas flame, or an electric arc,
     thermite compound or other methods;

(b)  operating resistance-welding machines;

(c)  using blowtorch to make and repair lead linings, pipes,
     floors and other lead fixtures;

(d)  brazing metal parts together;

(e)  cutting metal pieces using gas flame or an electric arc;

(f)  joining metal parts by hand soldering;

(g)  performing related tasks;

(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Brazier
  Flamecutter
  Welder

3460  SOCIAL WORK ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
      Social work associate professionals provide guidance to
clients in social and related matters to enable them to find and
use resources to overcome difficulties and achieve particular
goals.      Tasks include:

(a)   helping individuals and families with personal and social
      problems;

(b)   collecting information relevant to clients' needs and
      advising them on their rights and obligations;

(c)   analysing the client's situation and presenting alternative
      approaches to resolving problems;

(d)   compiling case records or reports for court and other legal
      proceedings;

(e)   planning, evaluating, improving and developing welfare
      services;

(f)   working to prevent development of delinquency or to achieve
      rehabilitation of delinquents by organising and supervising
      social, recreational and educational activities in youth
      clubs, community centres and similar organisations, or by
      other means;

(g)   helping physically or mentally handicapped persons to
      obtain adequate treatment and improve their ability to
      function in society;

(h)   planning, organising or providing home-help services;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Social worker, associate professional
  Social worker, associate professional/enterprise
  Welfare worker, associate professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:   Social worker, professional - 2446
  Social worker, professional/enterprise - 2446
  Welfare worker, professional -2446

2446  SOCIAL WORK PROFESSIONALS 
     Social work professionals provide guidance to clients in
social and  related matters to enable them to find and use
resources to overcome  difficulties and achieve particular goals.

     Tasks include

(a)   helping individuals and families with personal and social
      problems;

(b)   collecting information relevant to clients' needs and
      advising them on their rights and obligations;

(c)   analysing the client's situation and presenting alternative
      approaches to resolving problems;

(d)   compiling case records or reports for courts and other
      legal proceedings;

(e)   planning, evaluating, improving and developing welfare
      services;

(f)   working to prevent development of delinquency or to achieve
      rehabilitation of delinquents by organising and supervising
      social, recreational and educational activities in youth
      clubs, community centres and similar organisations, or by
      other means;

(g)   helping physically or mentally handicapped persons to
      obtain adequate treatment and improve their ability to
      function in society;

(h)   planning, organising or providing home-help services;

(i)   performing related tasks;

(j)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Social worker, professional
  Social worker, professional/enterprise
  Welfare worker, professional

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

  Social worker, associate professional - 3460
  Social worker, associate professional/enterprise - 3460
  Welfare worker, associate professional - 3460

4133  TRANSPORT CLERKS
 
     Transport clerks keep records of operational aspects and
coordinate the  timing of train, road and air passenger and
freight transport, and prepare  reports for management.
     Tasks include -

(a)  keeping records of operational aspects, and coordinating the
     timing of passenger and freight transport;

(b)  directing train routings within a division or zone of a
     railway system and keeping related records;
(c)  directing, controlling and keeping records of freight
     handling at a railway yard;
(d)  coordinating and keeping records of operational activities
     concerning road transport, such as allocation and scheduling
     of vehicles and drivers, loading and unloading of vehicles
     and storage of goods in transit;
(e)  coordinating and keeping records of operational activities
     concerning air transport of passengers and freight, such as
     passenger lists and freight manifests;
(f)  preparing reports for management;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Controller, clerical/air transport service
  Controller, clerical/railway service
  Controller, clerical/road transport service
  Dispatcher, clerical/boat
  Dispatcher, clerical/bus
  Dispatcher, clerical/train
  Dispatcher, clerical/truck

7224  METAL WHEEL-GRINDERS, POLISHERS AND TOOL SHARPENERS
 

     Metal wheel-grinders, polishers and tool sharpeners grind
and polish  metal surfaces and sharpen tools.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating fixed or portable buffing and polishing machines;

(b)  sharpening cutting tools and instruments using grinding
     wheel or mechanically operated grinding machines;

(c)  repairing, adjusting and sharpening saw blades and metal
     teeth of cylinders in textile carding machines;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Finisher, metal
  Grinder, tool
  Polisher, metal
  Sharpener, knife
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, finishing/metal - 8223
  Machine-operator polishing/metal -8223

7422  CABINET-MAKERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Cabinet-makers and related workers, by using tools and
woodworking  machines, make, decorate and repair wooden
furniture, wheels or other wooden  parts of vehicles, wooden
fittings, patterns, models and other items such as  pipes, wooden
skis, shoes, or sports racquets and sticks.

     Tasks include -

(a)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as cabinets and
     other furniture, using woodworking machines and hand tools;

(b)  making and repairing wooden vehicles, wheels or other wooden
     parts of vehicles;

(c)  making and repairing wooden articles, such as patterns,
     scale models and mock-ups, casks, tobacco pipes, wooden
     skis, shoes or sports racquets or sticks;

(d)  decorating furniture and fixtures by inlaying wood, applying
     veneer and carving designs;

(e)  finishing surfaces of wooden articles or furniture;

(f)  performing related tasks;

(g)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cabinet-maker
  Cart-wright
  Wheel-wright
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Carpenter - 7124
  Joiner - 7124
  Machine-operator, furniture production - 8240

7141  PAINTERS AND RELATED WORKERS
 

     Painters and related workers prepare surfaces of buildings
and other  structures for painting, apply protective and
decorative coats of paint or  similar materials or cover interior
walls and ceilings of buildings with  wallpaper, silk or other
fabrics.

     Tasks include -

(a)  cleaning and preparing walls and other surfaces of buildings
     for painting or wallpapering;

(b)  applying or spraying paint, varnish, shellac and similar
     materials to surfaces, fixtures and fittings of buildings;

(c)  measuring and mounting wallpaper, silk or other fabrics on
     interior walls and ceilings of buildings and ships;

(d)  applying or spraying paint, red lead, bituminous emulsion
     and similar materials to ships' hulls and metal structures,
     steel frameworks of buildings, bridges and metal
     constructions;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers in this group.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Painter, building
  Paperhanger

1314  GENERAL MANAGERS IN WHOLESALE AND RETAIL TRADE 
      General managers in wholesale and retail trade head small
wholesale or  retail businesses and, on their own behalf or on
behalf of the proprietor,  plan, direct and coordinate the
activities of the business, with the  assistance of no more than
one other manager and some non-managerial help.

      Tasks include -

(a)   planning and implementing policies;

(b)   making budgetary estimates;

(c)   negotiating with suppliers and customers and with other
      organisations;


(d)   planning and controlling the use of resources and hiring
      workers;

(e)   managing daily operations;

(f)   reporting to owners, if any;

(g)   performing related tasks;

(h)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here':

 General manager, retail trade 

 General manager, wholesale trade 

Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

 Department manager, production and operations/retail
         trade - 1224 

 Managing director, enterprise/wholesale trade -
         1210 

7431  FIBRE PREPARERS
 

     Fibre preparers prepare wool, cotton,flax, jute, hemp and
other natural  textile fibres for spinning and winding.

     Tasks include -

(a)  grading and classifying natural textile fibres;

(b)  washing wool fibres;

(c)  cleaning and fluffing textile fibres;

(d)  forming fibres into sliver, combing them, combining sliver
     into sliver laps or forming sliver into rove;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Comber, fibre/textiles
  Drawer, fibre/textiles
  Rover, fibre/textiles
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator combing/textile fibres - 8261

9321  ASSEMBLING LABOURERS
 

     Assembling labourers undertake product-sorting or simple
hand-assembling  of components.

     Tasks include -

(a)  carrying out manual sorting of products or components;

(b)  carrying out simple assembling of components;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Bottle sorter
  Labourer, assembling
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Assembler, electrical equipment - 8282
  Assembler, electronic equipment - 8283
  Assembler, leather products - 8286
  Assembler, rubber products - 8284
  Assembler, vehicle - 8281
  Assembler, wood products - 8285

6112  TREE AND SHRUB CROP GROWERS
 
     Tree and shrub crop growers plan and carry out the necessary
operations  to grow and harvest trees and shrubs, such as fruit
and nut trees, tea and  coffee bushes, grape vines, berry-bearing
bushes, cocoa trees and rubber trees  and to collect sap, for
sale or delivery on a regular basis to wholesale  buyers,
marketing organisations or at markets.

     Tasks include -

(a)  determining kinds and amounts of crops to be grown

(b)  purchasing seeds, fertiliser and other supplies;

(c)  renting or investing in land and land improvements,
     buildings, working animals, equipment and machinery;

(d)  performing farm operations such as land preparation, sowing,
     planting and tending trees or bushes, collecting sap and
     harvesting crops;

(e)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(f)  tending working animals and maintaining farm buildings,
     machinery and equipment;

(g)  delivering or marketing farm products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Farm worker, skilled/shrub crop
  Farmer, fruit
  Farmer, rubber
  Farmer, tea
  Farmer, vineyard
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/agriculture
        - 1221
  General manager, agriculture - 1311
  Labourer, farm - 9211
  Managing director, enterprise/agriculture - 1210
  Operator, agricultural machinery - 8331

8277  TEA-, COFFEE- AND COCOA-PROCESSING-MACHINE OPERATORS
 

     Tea-, coffee- and cocoa-processing machine operators operate
and monitor  machines to blend and prepare tea leaves, coffee or
cocoa beans and chicory  roots.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating and monitoring machines used to dry tea leaves,
     roll withered leaves or dry rolled leaves, and blend various
     grades of tea;

(b)  operating and monitoring machines used to cut coffee or
     cocoa berries and remove and wash off pulp, peel off husk
     from beans, and cure and blend beans;

(c)  operating and monitoring machines which roast blended coffee
     or cocoa beans or chicory roots;

(d)  operating and monitoring machines which crush tea or grind
     coffee, cocoa or chicory; 

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Machine-operator, cocoa-bean processing
  Machine-operator, coffee-bean processing
  Machine-operator, tea-leaf processing

7245  ELECTRICAL LINE INSTALLERS, REPAIRERS AND CABLE JOINTERS
 

     Electrical line installers, repairers and cable jointers
install and  repair electrical lines and joint cables.

     Tasks include -

(a)  installing and repairing overhead and underground electrical
     power and electrical traction lines;

(b)  installing and repairing overhead and underground telephone
     and telegraph lines;

(c)  making joints in overhead and underground cables;

(d)  performing related tasks;

(e)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Cable worker, telegraph
  Jointer, cable/electric
  Line worker/electric power
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, electrical line installation - 8290

7421  WOOD TREATERS
 

     Wood treaters season and preserve wood.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating steam-heated kilns to season wood;

(b)  treating wood with chemicals to protect it against decay or
     parasites;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Wood seasoner
  Wood treater
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, treating/wood 8141

7423  WOODWORKING-MACHINE SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Woodworking-machine setters and setter-operators set or set
and operate  woodworking machines, such as precision sawing,
shaping, planing, boring, turning and woodcarving machines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting and adjusting various kinds of machines for
     operation by others;

(b)  setting and operating one or several types of woodworking
     machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Sawyer, precision woodworking
  Setter, woodworking machine
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine
  Turner, wood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator woodworking - 8240
  Setter-operator, metalworking machine - 7223

6141  FORESTRY WORKERS AND LOGGERS
 
     Forestry workers and loggers carry out the necessary
operations to  cultivate, conserve and exploit forests, for sale
or delivery of forestry  products on a regular basis to wholesale
buyers, marketing organisations or at  markets.

     Tasks include -

(a) establishing and caring for forest stands;

(b)  locating trees to be felled and estimating volume of timber;

(c)  trimming, topping and felling trees and sawing them into
     logs;

(d)  shaping rough wooden products from logs at felling site;

(e)  stacking logs, loading them in chutes or floating them down
     rivers;

(f)  keeping watch to detect forest fires and participating in
     firefighting operations;

(g)  delivering or marketing forestry products;

(h)  performing related tasks;

(i)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Climber, logging
  Cruiser, timber
  Feller-bucker, tree
  Forestry worker, skilled
  Logger
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Department manager, production and operations/forestry
        - 1221
  General manager, forestry - 1311
  Labourer, forestry - 9212
  Managing director, enterprise/forestry - 1210
  Operator, forestry machinery - 8331

7423  WOODWORKING-MACHINE SETTERS AND SETTER-OPERATORS
 

     Woodworking-machine setters and setter-operators set or set
and operate  woodworking machines, such as precision sawing,
shaping, planing, boring, turning and woodcarving machines.

     Tasks include -

(a)  setting and adjusting various kinds of machines for
     operation by others;

(b)  setting and operating one or several types of woodworking
     machines;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Sawyer, precision woodworking
  Setter, woodworking machine
  Setter-operator, woodworking machine
  Turner, wood
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator woodworking - 8240
  Setter-operator, metalworking machine - 7223

7421  WOOD TREATERS
 

     Wood treaters season and preserve wood.

     Tasks include -

(a)  operating steam-heated kilns to season wood;

(b)  treating wood with chemicals to protect it against decay or
     parasites;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Wood seasoner
  Wood treater
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, treating/wood 8141

9322  HAND PACKERS AND OTHER MANUFACTURING LABOURERS
 

     Hand packers and other manufacturing labourers pack
materials or products  by hand and perform a variety of simple
routine tasks connected with  manufacturing.

     Tasks include -

(a)  packing materials or products by hand in boxes, bags,
     cartons, crates, kegs and other containers for shipment or
     storage;

(b)  moving, lifting, carrying, loading, unloading or washing raw
     materials or products, in various manufacturing  industries
     or repair and maintenance establishments;

(c)  performing related tasks;

(d)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Labourer, manufacturing
  Packer, hand
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Machine-operator, labelling - 8290
  Machine-operator, packing - 8290

7129  BUILDING FRAME AND RELATED TRADES WORKERS NOT ELSEWHERE
CLASSIFIED
 

     This unit group covers building frame and related trades
workers not  classified elsewhere in Minor group 712, Building
frame and related trades  workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who perform
miscellaneous  construction and building maintenance tasks.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  performing miscellaneous construction and building
     maintenance work on structures such as office buildings,
     apartment houses, factories and similar establishments in
     good repair;

(b)  performing construction, maintenance or repair work at
     unusual heights;

(c)  erecting temporary metal or wooden scaffolding on building
     sites;

(d)  demolishing buildings and other structures;

(e)  performing related tasks;

(f)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
  Demolition worker
  Housebuilder, non-traditional materials
  Scaffolder
  Steeplejack
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:
  Labourer, construction/buildings 9313
  Labourer, demolition - 9313

3475  ATHLETES, SPORTSPERSONS AND RELATED ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONALS
 
     Athletes, sportspersons and related associate professionals
participate  in competitive sporting events, conduct sports
training, compile rules  concerning sporting events, and control
the progress of these events.     Tasks include -

(a)   participating in competitive sporting events;

(b)   conducting sports training to develop ability in and
      knowledge of the sport;

(c)   compiling rules concerning the conduct of sporting
      competitions, and controlling the progress of these events;

(d)   performing related tasks;

(e)   supervising other workers.

 Examples of the occupations classified here:   Athlete
  Boxer
  Coach, sports
  Official, sports
  Wrestler

2451  AUTHORS, JOURNALISTS AND OTHER WRITERS 
     Authors, journalists and other writers write literary works
for  publication or presentation in dramatic form, appraise
merits of artistic  productions, or literary and other works of
art, or write and edit news,  stories and commentaries.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conceiving and writing literary works for publication or
      presentation in dramatic form;

(b)   writing scripts and continuities and preparing programmes
      for stage, film, radio and television productions;

(c)   appraising and writing about merits of literary, musical
      and other works of art, and about artistic performances;

(d)   collecting, reporting and commenting on news and current
      affairs for publication in newspapers and periodicals, or
      for broadcasting by radio or television;

(e)   interviewing politicians and other public figures at press
      conferences and on other occasions, including individual
      interviews recorded for radio or television;

(f)   writing editorials and selecting, revising, arranging and
      editing submitted articles and other material for
      publication in newspapers and periodicals;

(g)   appraising manuscripts submitted for publication in book
      form, making recommendations thereon and editing or
      supervising editing of the material;

(h)   writing advertising copy promoting particular products or
      services;

(i)   selecting, assembling and preparing publicity material
      about business or other organisations for issue through
      press, radio, television and other media;

(j)   designing and writing brochures, handbooks and similar
      technical publications;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified hers:

  Author
  Copywriter, advertising
  Critic
  Editor
  Journalist
  Writer, technical

4133  TRANSPORT CLERKS
 
     Transport clerks keep records of operational aspects and
coordinate the  timing of train, road and air passenger and
freight transport, and prepare  reports for management.
     Tasks include -

(a)  keeping records of operational aspects, and coordinating the
     timing of passenger and freight transport;

(b)  directing train routings within a division or zone of a
     railway system and keeping related records;
(c)  directing, controlling and keeping records of freight
     handling at a railway yard;
(d)  coordinating and keeping records of operational activities
     concerning road transport, such as allocation and scheduling
     of vehicles and drivers, loading and unloading of vehicles
     and storage of goods in transit;
(e)  coordinating and keeping records of operational activities
     concerning air transport of passengers and freight, such as
     passenger lists and freight manifests;
(f)  preparing reports for management;
(g)  performing related tasks;
(h)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:
   Controller, clerical/air transport service
  Controller, clerical/railway service
  Controller, clerical/road transport service
  Dispatcher, clerical/boat
  Dispatcher, clerical/bus
  Dispatcher, clerical/train
  Dispatcher, clerical/truck

3423  EMPLOYMENT AGENTS AND LABOUR CONTRACTORS
 
     Employment agents and labour contractors match jobseekers
with vacancies,  find workers for employers and contract labour
for particular projects at the  request of enterprises and other,
including government, institutions, or find  places for
jobseekers for a commission.     Tasks include -

(a)   matching jobseekers with vacancies known to government job
      placement offices, or advising on training schemes;

(b)   finding workers for vacant posts against a commission from
      the employer or worker;

(c)   discussing with enterprises/organisations the needed skills
      and other characteristics of the workers to be employed or
      contracted:

(d)   finding workers with appropriate skills, etc., and
      undertaking the necessary formalities according to national
      or international regulations and requirements;

(e)   ensuring that the employment contracts meet legal
      requirements and signing them;

(f)   performing related tasks;

(g)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:   Agent, employment
  Contractor, labour
  Officer, job placement

6129  MARKET-ORIENTED ANIMAL PRODUCERS AND RELATED WORKERS NOT
ELSEWHERE  CLASSIFIED

 
     This unit group covers market-oriented animal producers and
related  workers not classified elsewhere in Minor group 612,
Market-oriented animal  producers and related workers.

     For instance, here should be classified those who are
engaged in  breeding, raising and tending wild mammals, game
birds and other birds,  snails, non-domesticated fur-giving
animals, snakes and other reptiles, as well  as various insects
and animals used for laboratory tests, for sale or delivery  on
a regular basis to wholesale buyers, marketing organisations,
zoos and  circuses, or at markets. Here should also be classified
those who look after  or train animals in animal reserves,
stables, zoos, circuses, research  organisations, animal homes,
and similar institutions.

     In such cases tasks would include -

(a)  buying or setting up necessary buildings, open or sheltered
     space, equipment, etc., and maintaining them;

(b)  determining kinds and amounts of animals to be raised;

(c)  purchasing animals, growing or purchasing food and other
     supplies;

(d)  breeding, raising, feeding and tending animals;

(e)  killing and skinning animals, and preparing animals or
     animal products for market

(f)  storing and carrying out some basic processing of their
     produce;

(g)  protecting animals, especially in animal reserves;

(h)  training animals for racing, circus performances and the
     like;

(i)  delivering or marketing products;

(j)  performing related tasks;

(k)  supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

       Breeder, bird
  Breeder, game bird
  Breeder, laboratory animal/mice
  Breeder, lion
  Breeder, snail
  Farmer, fur/non-domesticated animals
  Keeper, animal reserve
  Keeper, zoo
Some related occupations classified elsewhere:

       Game-warden - 5169

2211  BIOLOGISTS, BOTANISTS, ZOOLOGISTS AND RELATED PROFESSIONALS 
     Biologists, botanists, zoologists and related professionals
conduct  research, improve or develop concepts, theories and
operational methods, and  apply scientific knowledge relating to
biology, microbiology, bacteriology,  cytology, genetics,
zoology, botany and ecology, especially in the fields of 
medicine and agriculture.

     Tasks include -

(a)   conducting research, improving or developing concepts,
      theories and operational methods in their respective
      fields;

(b)   conducting field and laboratory experiments concerning all
      forms of life by identifying and classifying human, animal,
      insect or plant specimens, and studying their origin,
      development, chemical and physical form, structure,
      composition, and life and reproductive processes;

(c)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure, development and characteristics of micro-
      organisms such as bacteria or viruses;

(d)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the factors
      involved in the origin, development and transmission of
      hereditary characteristics in human beings, animals or
      plants;

(e)   studying all forms of plant life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(f)   studying all forms of animal life and developing practical
      applications of this knowledge in fields such as
      agriculture and medicine;

(g)   studying and conducting experiments concerning the
      structure and functions of living cells, and the influence
      of physical and chemical factors upon normal and abnormal
      cells;

(h)   studying inter-relationships of animal and plant life and
      the environmental factors involved, and giving professional
      advice to related disciplines;

(i)   developing industrial, medical and other applications of
      knowledge in their respective fields;

(j)   preparing scientific papers and reports;

(k)   performing related tasks;

(l)   supervising other workers.

Examples of the occupations classified here:

  Bacteriologist
  Biologist
  Botanist
  Ecologist
  Microbiologist
  Zoologist

